Source: YouTube — Alisher Sadullaev on Tech4Impact — "Startup Mix PR Corner discussion #3"
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kusDjfefyM
Channel: Tech4Impact
Kind: panel
Language: uz
STT: Aisha AI

The Central Asian Women in Tech and Science Week and Startup Mix conference. Hi, my name is Nargiza Vodobolyayeva. I'm from Turkiston. I'm Tech Woman Alumni ikki ming o'n olti. I had my internship at Twitter headquarters in San Francisco. And um I uh founded my company once I was back in Bishkek. And uh we do uh mobile app development, uh web development and design. And I also um a part of Inkubation Lab. Uh I brought in ikki ming o'n olti and ikki ming o'n sakkiz like uh mobile app development, uh web development and design. And I also um a part of Inkubation Lab. Uh I brought in ikki ming o'n olti and ikki ming o'n sakkiz like uh mobile app development, uh web development and design. And I also um a part of Inkubation Lab. Uh I brought in ikki ming o'lchay uch yil viza platformani va boshqa sharoit tushuntirish kerak e e to sum up like o'ttiz mentors from leading companies like Facebook, uh Google and others like anything you can recall of to Kyrgizstan, which is really unique and uh this year we are having uh mentors coming too uh and um I'm really passionate about startups, about networking and um design thinking. Hi, my name is Alisher Sa'dullayev. I'm the first deputy chairman of Youth Union. And I'm very honored to be here on on Tech Women Science, uh, taking Women Science Week and very happy to hear that. basically, I believe that, uh, this conference pays the wave for a very successful generation because we understand that science and technology are the crucial factors for a successful future. So, I am more than sure that this conference will help a lot to be, uh, say, more a generation in in this domains and, uh, very hopeful to be, uh, more successful than I have ever felt. So, I am more than sure that this conference will help a lot to be, uh, say, more a generation in in this domains and, uh, very hopeful to be. Uhm, I am more than sure that this conference will help a lot to be, uh, say, more a generation in in this domains and, uh, very hopeful to be. part of that big event. So, um, uh, basically as a responsible party for youth, I understand that there are very critical skills that we have to look at. If, uh, uh, the only, uh, the simple statistics that I can share with you is that over oltmish% of the population here in Uzbekistan consident youth. So this means that we need to, to, uh, rape the demographic dividend. When I mean this demographic dividend, I mean the skills that we can take advantage of. Siz basically ularga o'rgatishlari bo'ladi, let's say, uh and as an example, say, uh going outside and uh driving a car and so on. So, but at the same time siz o'rgatishga qarorlaringiz qilish uchun be crucial for your, for your, let's say, kid's feature. So ular be, say, uh tech sphere, tech field or a domain or, um, crucial, say, factor, so critical thinking or, uh, design thinking, or it could be, say, uh, how to communicate feedbacks and, uh, share your um say ideas with people in a right way so you exchange ideas with those people and you basically feed back and feed forward so basically helps you to develop yourself personally and that actually is a process where you uh say constantly practice on yourself so i understand that uh this is a very important skill and one of the most important skills is to uh to think creatively uh you may think it's a very bitta notch deyish, like, how to think creatively, it's repeated all the time and so on. But here's one one fact that actually really keeps us always working, is that I just gave an example of, uh, say, uh, destruction of a, say, old city in in the center of Tashkent, where at the same time you don't have to, let's say, destroy them, but probably remain this old, say, or retain this old buildings and turn them into a cultural heritage where it brings. Ehtiyot qilishidan keyin ularning oila oladigan odamlari bilan mayli, o'zining oila oladigan odamlari bilan say, old buildings'ini qat'iy tarjima qilishadi, lekin ular oldingi bu'zaga yo'zgarish uchun bar'bak' tushmaydi. Agar ular oldingi, bar'bak' tarjima qilishi kerakki, ularning oldingi bar'bak' tarjima qiladi, ularning oldingi bar'bak' tarjima qiladi. sizga value ko'proq value berishdan investorni inviting qilish va something buildirish on that. So, here it's very important to teach kids to think the the other side of the coin. So, you teach them think creatively, not just go for a standard decision, but rather try to solve one case in different ways that basically gives different, let's say, results and so on. So, these are the basic skills that I think are important for you. So, what do you think about it? I talk this for you. I hear you and Um, uh, to add to that, I think, um, being a team player is crucial to, uh, and of course communication too. So you're communicating to everyone, you're communicating to your team, you're communicating to your designers, you're communicating to your, uh, customers or to the public. So you have, you have to be able to communicate it clearly to different public, to different communities, to different people. So, yeah, and it's, it's crucial. And for being a team player, uh, it's also, it's, it's, it's all, all interconnected. So, uh, Being in a team means again, uh, knowing, uh, everyone's personality and knowing how to handle it, knowing how to communicate and treat them. And, uh, it's okay if someone from your team is not a critical thinker or, uh, is not for design thinking, you have to admit that, um, the team should be diverse enough to be productive. Yeah. So, even in my team, like, everyone has different soft skills and I really appreciate it. Someone is to straight forward, someone is no stop let's go. think about it, let's use design thinking and I know that uh we each other, we push each other and uh this is uh like what makes a team. I also uh agree with the with the fact that you mentioned. It's very important to have the abilities to communicate with the team because when you have the joint project that you basically share and you go to a mutual, let's say, purpose, then you have to be able to talk and communicate with this people. And at the same time, I understand here, it's very important to be able to brainstorm in a right way. So you teach them how to brainstorm. aytaylik, butun jarayon. Sizda case bor, sizga how to think differently in that process o'rganishingiz kerak. So the same thing. Va at the same time, men o'ylayman, quality to pursue, to pursue your mission, how to set a goal va to have a clear vision juda muhim bo'ladi for you. Because basically, when you launch a project, men deyman like, you know, in Western society you basically understand that failure is just a part of your success. But still, men bilamanki, ularni how to say single out a project and share that project with the right person and uh communicate with the right people let's say on the board it's very important so we also need to teach our kids I mean youth basically the skills how to evaluate the whole process and to set a clear mission vision and of course uh say team values that basically lead to a successful say project management Mhm yeah yeah for sure and I think uh bu important. Um, so I I didn't know about brainstorming before. Biz bunaqa narsani did something like this, lekin biz never realized that that was actually a brainstorming and biz didn't know the right the right ways to brainstorm. And, um, I had some people who were trying to teach me too, but I didn't know these skills mentoring. And, um, I think, um, international programs, exchange programs are really valuable for that. So, uh, I found out about those terms, uh, and how to use them during my Tech Women program, which is the next Chuan. And I think such programs really, uh, important for that because you go there, you, um, you you you don't look at the, uh, same things like this. Uh, you, uh, then know, uh, what other cultures are, so what, uh, they would do, what other companies do. And, uh, so you can choose one of those approaches. And I think it's very important to be part of those, uh, exchange programs to, to be more effective too. I'm more than sure that actually this brings a lot of, diverse communication, diverse experience to the whole process itself, because you, as you mentioned, uh, cultures perceive, uh, projects, ideas, the whole process differently. So, the basically makes it very valid. And when you get to see your French friend doing something in a different way, you understand like, wow, you do it in a different way. Yeah. So you do it, you do it in that way. The same thing happens to, uh, say, teamwork, where you share a project and let's say your Italyan friend comes up with it. different solution. saying that culturally, that's right for them. And you share this international experience with them and you participate in this international events that basically give you a sense of international community and you probably become more diverse and rounded as a person in in general and that gives a clear mind and more diverse ideas and of course more say uh creativity in the whole process. So I am for such events. And networking too. And again Biz networkingga keldik va bu yana soft skills. A, men actually nima desam bo'ladi? Ha. So, networking is really crucial, chunki oldin, uh, o'sha programmalarga men effektivni network qilishni bilmagan edim. So, biz usually kelib, biz aytamiz, mening ismim this and this, and that's it. Biz never think ahead. Biz never think that. Exactly. This may come too. So, a real example of this networking is that we met today. Yeah. And I am sure we're actually, you know, very kind of friendly already. So that basically pays our way for our next cooperation. So I am more than happy to say that we are actually very kind of friendly. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. I mean, we are really kind of friendly to each other. So I am yutdan bemalar. assure that networking is one of the most critical skills. I, in fact, read an article on HBR Harvard Business Review saying that networking is one of the ultimate skills that young people need to acquire in the, let's say, near future. So. Thank you for sharing with us. Nice to talk to you. Thank you. I sit up to you.
