Source: YouTube — Alisher Sadullaev on Nobel Fest — "V NOBEL FEST ENG DAY 1"
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mNCihOd1GQ
Channel: Nobel Fest
Kind: panel
Language: uz
STT: Groq Whisper (large-v3)

Қарапырска Алишар Садыраев и стратегический партнер Нобел-Фест в публичном сообществе, коммуникациях и хранительности вис-президентом компании Кокополы Синам Джам Сахим Дорогие гости, дайм инвитировать на сцену человека, который сделал важную участие в агенде для изменения климата I am very excited to join the Novel Fest. The Novel Fest has been providing a very interesting, exciting opportunity for the young generation and the policymakers in Central Asia. And today especially I congratulate the Novel Fest that Tashkent and Astana is joining together together and coming up with the teamwork and partnership to come up with even more rich presentations of many interesting speakers. Today as a topic is education and education is of course one of the most important knowledge for the future. here i would like to emphasize that we are facing many kind of new problems and issues and the problem here is that we cannot solve the current problems with the older thinking we have to come up with a new thinking to solve the problems we are facing now and i'm sure this is nowhere fast We will provide a very good opportunity for all those listeners and participants to learn about the new way of thinking to solve the political, social and ecological crisis we are facing. I have been working for to solve the problem of climate change issues and I have been promoting new ideas and new thinking for green economic growth, the green growth, to replace growth, grow first and clean out later paradigm. and I'm sure Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan is at the crossroad to make a very critical choice which future path you are going to choose. So I hope this Nobel Fest can provide a very important opportunity and knowledge to help and to assist young generation and policy makers in this region to make a right choice. Thank you very much and once again my big congratulations for a very successful Norderfest. Thank you very much. Thank you very much Mr. Aykwanchon. It's a great privilege for us to host you in our country and as we know you had a chance to visit our ancient city Samarkand which is called as the pearl of great silk roads and as we know you enjoyed it. And now let me give the floor to my colleague from Kazakhstan, Angela, now it's your turn and we are listening to you very tentatively. Thank you, Nilifar. Ladies and gentlemen, it was Professor Chang, and we should give him a big applause. Let's do this. Thank you. Dear friends, tomorrow Professor Chang will be in Astana for the Nobel Fest. So let me give the floor to our dear Minister of Science and Higher Education, Sayasat Nurbek, who actively supports the Nobel Fest Science and Education in Kazakhstan. Дар министр, мы ждем вас! Господин министр, мы рады приветствовать вас! Добрый день! Дар министр, мы рады приветствовать вас! Добро пожаловать! Hello everyone, thank you for coming down here. Let me just say that only yesterday, as you know, we were celebrating our National Day of Republic. So it's a new, as you know, very special day. And congratulations everyone. Yeah. So this is a national holiday. You know that Maksad actually has a dream. And the dream is to provide many, many young people, not just young people, but people generally, access to the best knowledge out there. You know, when I met Maksad for the first time, many, many years ago, he was part of the Astana Economic Forum. He was doing the organizational part. He told me about this dream that we have these amazing speakers from around the world, all the professors, economists, experts, etc. But only a very small percentage of the population can hear it, can attend to this. So how come that we can't multiply these ideas? So how come that we don't multiply it, magnify it, so that students, young researchers and everyone, just common people, you know, would be part of it? And I supported it personally, so I was just a regular guy. I was just a private entrepreneur at that time, so I supported MAKSAT and I was part of four Nobel Fests, you know, all the way to now. as a speaker of course, as a host, you know, as a as a panelist, etc. So today, for the first time, I speak as a minister for science and technology. You know that our ministry was created several months ago. It's a very young ministry. So, I mean, four months, four months old. Very, very young. So, we're doing this step by step. This new ministry. So let's talk about the problems and the kind of problems and challenges that we need to solve together. So I have several slides. So let me maybe show you some visuals and that should help you. Vestibularization and deprivation conditions are not safe because the status quo does not compete with America's security schedule. Complaint about education and they you know many of these experts say that everything's bad everything's terrible but we have certain systemic problems of course and the first step as a minister of course I had to acknowledge the problems and I knock on every door knock on every R&D facility every university I just leave no stone unturned so to say yeah well because I actually had to just visit I visit everyone and I open the door and these guys are sitting in the basement like who are you? I'm the minister. What are you doing here? We're working. Good. Excellent. By the way see the clicker doesn work by the way So in terms of the quality of the human capital I mean we actually doing pretty good we doing pretty good and we have really really good stuff and To be honest with you. I mean if you look at the common human development index, I mean 51 out of 189 countries. Yeah, so that's that's pretty good. That's pretty good and the reason we're going up, we keep going up, is because of the access, the access to education. So we provide really, really good access to education. We provide really strong reach across the population. I mean, both high education and college education, and that component alone actually ranks us high because it's a big country, and we have enough resources, and just imagine the countries that have huge demographic pressure to at least provide some basic education. And if you look at the higher education, by the way, I would like to congratulate all of us, by the way, for, you know, there are several important ratings, like the U.S. News Report, a very, very reputable rating. They really are very stringent in terms of selecting. selectin and one of our top universities as you know uh yeah the al-farabi university as you know uh joined the ranking which is very very important so uh despite that despite that uh the key question that we have in front of us and in front of the education system is to continue this trend to continue to provide this kind of access So, what we're seeing is an absolutely unprecedented demographic wave in this part of the world. For the past two years, we have more than one million babies born. That's a lot. Roughly half a million children every year. So, I mean, this is like a world record. Think about it, half a million. So, I mean, the last time we had that much was part of the Soviet Union. and that was the record of the 20th century so I mean this year and the past year we had two records so it means that the pandemic has its pros yeah people make babies so we're expecting another record this year so expecting close to half a million so 1.5 million babies in just three years think about it in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan and you know Uzbekistan is a Қыргызтан, Таджикистан, Кыргызтан Более-более люди родились в этих местах Но если смотреть Индия, Пакистан, Бангладеш, и так далее Вы знаете, что Индия является самым дешевым страной Это главная часть Киня, кстати, и Киня имеет 1,5 миллиона Так что Индия имеет больше И есть много миграций, много изменений И большие страны не yet вошли в эти места have not yet changed their migration and you know that many of our families that want to study abroad are feeling this pressure with the visas with the, you know, they're being throttled and, you know, getting an opportunity to study and leading university is becoming difficult, etc. So, and unfortunately due to certain things that are happening in a part of the world, I'm talking about the war, I mean, there's a lot of migration and a lot of people that actually studied in Russia and Ukraine are looking at alternatives, they're looking at other ways to study. So, for example, 23,000 students in our medical universities are actually knocking on our doors. Think about it, our medical universities, that's a lot of students because they want to continue their education. So, these three or four factors together, I mean, if you take it, that means that we're running into a problem of providing access to higher education. So, think about it, more than half a million students, if you look at BA, MA, and PhD. So, think about it, we have 120 different universities. But by 2030 we expect a doubling of student flow. And that means that close to 1.2 million students in just a matter of five years. So it's a demographic wave. And it's also a migration wave. And that, of course, will put enormous pressure on the system. and it already put enormous pressure on the primary education. This problem of just having a place to live, that in itself is a huge migration problem. So, what do we need to do? We, of course, need to think. We need to think twice about how do we fight this demographic wave. So, on the one hand, we're providing many, many more grants than we used to. We have already sold 128,000 grants for higher education. We have never done so much. So we increased the amount of funding by more than 100%. But that's not enough because there's a lot of limitations in terms of facilities. Because the last time Kazakhstan received a major, major investment in education and academic education was in the middle of the 9th to 20th century. That's it. I mean, it was still part of the Soviet Union. So, all these high institutions and high education facilities were built back in the 60s, back in the 70s. So, I'm talking about major development of campuses, big facilities. I mean, it all started and ended like 50, 60 years ago. And since that time, we have not done anything new. I mean, we've done a little bit, but not major ones. So, we don't have that many options. We don't have hybrid education, online education, digital education, etc. And it's not easy. So in our facilities, you know, they can't cope. Take Al-Farabi University, our national university, Al-Farabi University. For example, the infrastructure is rated for 10, maybe 12,000 students. maximum do you know how many students are there? almost 27,000 so that means that all of our universities are over, you know, they are running over capacity so and digitalization hybrid education is good of course it helps, I mean the fact that we can reduce physical infrastructure, the fact that we can move to a more flexible format, so I mean that is inevitable. So in August of this year, by the way, the first thing I did as a minister is to change the whole government standard, is to allow universities to be much more flexible when it comes to their approach, be it online, be it whatever it is. So, but, for example, we now allow four-year education, so not just five, but four-year education, which is a reduced We allow it for that. So we've given a lot of freedom to universities. It's up to them. As long as they meet 240 credits. You can do it in two years, in one year, whatever. So we don't keep students in the universities the longer they need it. So because the so-called basic credits, if you meet 240, then you're free to go. You can do it in three years, two years, one year, whatever. So depends on how fast how fast of a learner you are and one more thing of course is inviting investors inviting and opening up our education to foreign universities That's very, very important, and that's a huge step forward. I mean, it was difficult for us, but despite that, we've opened major campuses, several campuses. The Montfort University in Almaty, for example. Yeah, and I was part of the opening ceremony, for example. We also opened El Farabi campus for engineering and physics. Also in Petropavlovsk in September, we opened Arizona University for the first time ever. The Arizona American University, Arizona, Arizona University, which is like amazing. American University, right there on the border. ...in Petropavlovsk, think about it. So, and very, very, very interesting things started to happen. Very interesting. So, for the first time ever, we now see students from six different countries coming to us. And I went and I met them personally. Astana, Shymkent, Almaty, etc., etc. Класс, это очень удивительно. Как они пришли? Ну, причина, что они пришли, это потому что они знают, что это американская университет. Так что 62% учеников остались в России и в других частях мира, и теперь они возвращаются. So, the idea is to give them opportunities so big major reputable universities, global ones, can actually go in and take advantage of this big education market. So, if we can do things properly, then Kazakhstan and Central Asia can become a major academic hub. think about it because so many people that want to find an opportunity to get a higher education and they can because of migration because of politics because of limitations because of 27 branches of foreign universities were actually behind Uzbekistan we can do more so the question is how can we grow Три годы, Ютавейс агентство, партнер ньи Барселониян, в Узбекистане. Салам алейкум, хурматлии, татбараш тарахчиларе. Салам алейкум, лейдиз ин джеллуман, ам бири прауд ту пост хири, ин Ташки, ньи Барселониян, ньи бири партнер ньи Барселониян. Танкс ту органайзор, мақсет Курбанов, ньи Кока-Кола, ту мейк дис глобал платформ аксессибил фор ал янг пипл ин джорл. Yesterday I had a conversation with the Nobel Prize winner, Professor Ray Kwan-Chum, and we had a Spartan conversation over dinner. Listening to his opinions about economically developed country, I thought about one thing. Now our country has 60% of young population, game changers who have this influence on the growth of our country. And the old element we have to have is sustainable growth for our future. And I ask the same question to ourselves. Who are the ones who promise the sustainable future for us? I think no one, only us, ourselves, young people who are here in the studio can promise this. And the second thing I actually got over a conversation is that our teachers of best teachers in the world in 2021, Keisha Troup and her sister, they have walked through lots of experiences, difficulties, but they made it happen. Their example shows anyone in the world, education, which is a very hard and very difficult path to take, is worth it. I got tons of motivation that young people from Uzbekistan should or must definitely be inspired by their example. And today, on a big platform, I'm sure the organizers had a mission, they said, to make it accessible for young people to have lessons from the world top class experts. And I think they have achieved their goal. Thank you all the organizers of this event. I'm sure Tashkent will be very happy to host such events in the future as well. Today is just the beginning. I'm sure more and more Nobel Prize winners, more and more best teachers of the world will come to Tashkent and other cities to inspire more young people around us. Thank you once again. Thank you very much Mr. Shazafarovich for your motivation, energy and inspiring speech that you have shared with us. Ladies and gentlemen, dear participants, and now I am honored to pass the floor to the strategic corporate partner of the 5th Nobel Fest, Mr. Sinan Jamsahin, Public Affairs, Communication and Sustainability Vice President of the Coca-Cola Company for Eurasia and Middle East. Mr. Sinan, are you listening to us? Yes. Hello, Hello, Noble Fest. Sorry for the technical disruption. Dear Honorable Minister, Distinguished Speakers, Esteemed Audience of Noble Fest, It's my great pleasure to greet you on all behalf of Coca-Cola Company. I'm very, very excited and happy to be here. Hopefully, next year, I wish I would be physically present in one of those great, beautiful halls, either in Kazakhstan or Uzbekistan or another location. I'd like to start by talking about Eurasian Middle East Operating Unit. I represent Eurasian Middle East Operating Unit of the company. And this geography covers 25 countries, starting from Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, all the way to Turkey and Middle East. And most of the countries of this region through academia, bright and talented youth community, I believe, are well represented As the strategic partner of the International Nobel Fest we as Coca really take pride in supporting this program which is indeed one of the greatest platforms to inspire youth and young people We believe the companies cannot be successful without communities being successful as well Therefore we strive to support sustainable development of communities in various areas such as women and youth empowerment, preservation of water resources, and waste reduction. We actively partner with governments, NGOs, universities to support these programs that Қазақстан, Узбекистан, Пакистан, among others. We operate as a company in more than 200 countries of the world, and everywhere we aim to contribute to sustainable development of communities. Being partner and supporter of Noble Fest, we are excited, very very excited to contribute to empowerment of our young friends. We are happy to be part of this unique event that brings prominent and highly reputable international and local speakers, thought leaders, business executives to share their experience, wisdom and learning with young generations. This indeed is one of the ways to build an education nation as stated in the title of this session. NobleFest is truly a very rare and valuable opportunity to broaden your horizon, feed your curiosity and discover new dreams. The purpose of our company is to refresh the world and make a difference. We are proudly working with our partners for better shared future and make a difference in people's lives, communities and our planet. I am very confident that such a platform like Noble Fest will inspire lots of youngsters for success in the pursuit of their educational goals and career aspirations. Some students participating in these sessions could one day find solutions to national or even global challenges that humanity faces. But even small steps, small achievements of young generation would make a big difference. Therefore, I congratulate you all, especially the organizers, with the start of the 5th International Nobel Fest and wish you all very enjoyable and very inspiring days of learning. All the best. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Sinan Cem Sofin. As for me, I try to follow all the activities of the Coca-Cola company and I really admire them. And if all the companies in the world had the same approach, we wouldn't be worried about the future of our planet. Once again, thank you very much. And now, I would like to give the floor to Angela from Kazakhstan. Angela, who is next? Thank you, Nilifar. So, you and I will have one more bright performance at our opening. So friends, now let me give the floor to the partner of the Nobel Festival, the owner of the Mustafa Prize, which is considered as the Nobel Prize for Islamic countries. Dr. Iqbal Chaudhry, General Coordinator of the Committee of Science and Technology of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. Please, applause! As-salamu alaykum, good morning, good afternoon and good evening ladies and gentlemen, excellencies. You see I am absolutely delighted to be here. You know I came to this country back in 1999 and have seen the transformation of your beautiful country into a very progressive nation. So congratulations on achieving so much in the field of education, economy, science and technology and a lot more. Kazakhstan is an excellent example of one of the best countries which has developed over a span of three decades into a very prosperous and a progressive nation. I am here representing 1.9 billion people of the Muslim world. I am the coordinator general of Comstech, which is responsible of science and technology program in OIC member states. So whatever I will contribute are going to be in the context of 1.9 billion people in 57 countries in 4 continents. One fourth of humanity, a large number of them are young people like you, bold, bright and beautiful. Thank you very much. I am grateful to them for lighting the candle of hope and for giving the sense of direction to millions of young people all across the globe. Their slogan, together we can change the world and bring global science, innovation and education to every corner, is visionary and heartwarming. I am grateful to them for inviting Comstack to be the co-organizer of sixth Nobel festival which will be held together with Kazakhstan early next year in Islamabad, Pakistan. So I am looking forward to welcome you in the beautiful capital of Islamabad in Pakistan, inshallah. We live in a world which is defined by knowledge and its application. As Pakistani Nobel Laureate Professor Abdus Salam once said, the developing countries differ from developed countries not only because they have less wealth and capital, but because they have less knowledge. So the fact is that developing world countries are far behind because they do not really possess the knowledge which is required for development. This forum is even more important than ever in the context of post-COVID world where economic meltdown of many countries not only adversely eroded the investment and attention towards education but also magnified the existing divide in knowledge gap. Before this growing knowledge gap becomes unbridgeable, we need to act and we need to act promptly. In this graceful ceremony, sharing the stage with leading scholars, I speak in various capacities as a teacher who spent all of his life in imparting education to young people from different corners of the world, including Kazakhstan. as a student of science who believes on its transformation power and as a technocrat

I am the President of the Islamic Organization of the Islamic Republic of the United States, responsible for science and technology cooperation in vast OIC countries. Wearing different hats, I am going to try to present some of these thoughts and some humble recommendations for you to think about it. You see, I represent the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 1.9 billion people, and the problems are multifaceted. There are 57 countries in four continents, and many of them are among the least developed countries of the world. The question is whether we are happy to progress and develop in our own nations and leave these countries behind. Perhaps not, because knowledge and education has to be a common heritage for everyone. And every child, every young man has a right to be educated and to develop. and this is what is my mission. I, as a teacher, my first and foremost comments are about the dismal state of education in OIC member states. A constituency which I am representing here today. Major challenges which Muslim world face in the field of education include low access to education, As among the 780 million illiterate people, half of them are in OIC member states. Female literacy is well below the world average. You are very fortunate that you have universal education as mentioned by the Honorable Minister. According to UNESCO, 40% of Muslim women are unable to read or write. There are countries and regions where girls education is forbidden as a state policy. So this is an extremely serious situation. Exclusion of children of minorities and children with disabilities is another very important problem. Armed conflicts in five regions of the OSCE world leading a large scale migration. people are moving from their countries for safe haven to the other countries also. And of course, lack of investment in schools, trained teachers, and educational material, including educational technologies, are among the most important impediments. And kindly remember, when people are living in absolute poverty, they cannot simply afford to send their children to school. We must change the status quo. and work on war footing to ensure every child must get the opportunity to a basic education. Ladies and gentlemen, as a student of science, I'm a scientist by profession, a scientist who has worked all of his life in exploring nature, and I'm one of the most cited scientists in the country. As a student of science, I know that the driving force for socioeconomic development today is knowledge. The world today is driven by human capital, equipped with knowledge and skills. Research and technology are the key drivers of modern economies, whereas innovation and entrepreneurship are redefining the progress. In today's world, socio-economic development is no longer dependent on natural resources, oil or cotton or wheat or other natural resources. Knowledge is the main fuel which runs the engine of world economies. China, Singapore, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Western European countries are examples of these knowledge-driven economies. thriving on high technology export and high-end services, whereas countries of the global south remain in the vicious circle of producing more for less and export of low technology products and unskilled workers. This is reflected from the fact that the share of all 57 member states of the OIC, Қарай-Қарай-Қарай I am working on the development of advanced robotics, next generation genomics and biotechnology, advanced materials by nanotechnology, regenerative medicine and new energy devices. The question is, are we ready to adopt these new technologies? And where are these technologies being developed? The fact is, these technologies are developed in the global north. And we remain the poor users of these technologies. Where the intellect of our young people would be. Capacity as the coordinator general of standing committee of 57 ministers, including honorable minister of Kazakhstan, I'd like to share my humble thoughts for a paradigm shift. Though I'm speaking in the context of OIC countries, but it is equally relevant to the other developing nations also. Extremely important. It's very very important to find that you just build yourself a little bit of a dream But seems like the problem is too big, but then they asked me like what do you get me? Did you read her book? What happened to her? Yes, a boy Boys name. Yes. Yes the broken heart Yes, she wasn't fell in love with the boy His name was Alexei and she ditched her he ditched her So she left the city out of revenge And she decided to prove to him that he was wrong with her success Think about it Bayan is absolutely unstoppable So, I mean, she, I think, did like a third or fourth movie I mean, she's a director She has a new movie about home violence and whatnot So I said, Bayan, look, why didn't you stop? Everybody knows you have a big brand And she said, no, I can't I want to be creator I want to go on Regardless of how old you are Your age, whatever Regardless of what's happening in your life These people continue to do it Now, Steve Jobs Okay iPhones please Your iPhones Show me your iPhones A person who produced a revolution And you know that He didn't have parents basically Because they gave up on him So all this Oh, I'm a single mom Single dad Single whatever So, I mean It's all excuses Regardless of where you come from Your personal, do not blame parents for your personal failure in life. Okay? The fact that you've personally failed in life doesn't mean that you have this child trauma. If you're a loser, you're a loser. That's your problem. Don't blame parents for being a loser. Like Steve Jobs, as you know, his mother abandoned him, but he created a revolution. He was a dreamer. He was a dreamer to create a phone without buttons. And he made it real. Димаш Кирбан He had to go to China Had to win I Singer on Hunan TV And nobody cared about him And then oh my God he from Kazakhstan Kudos to him. But how come that we're so proud of Dimash? The point is that Dimash wasn't just in Kazakhstan. He wasn't just... He went to Slavyansky Bazar. He won. He got in touch with this guy, producer, that was from China. He said, hey, you need to go to I'm Singer. He went to China, especially he paid for his own trip, and he won. So if you have a dream, then you will find a way. But if you have a dream and you only sit in one place, it's not going to happen. So imagine, you're an artist, for example. You want to be a Nobel Prize winner, for example. But you keep sitting in Kazakhstan. Nothing is going to happen. Think about it. Because the world will not be the path to you. You need to get out of your home turf. So Dimash, this singer, became popular because of his perseverance and talent. There are a lot of genius people, a lot of great ideas, but it's about execution. Next one, Jack Ma. Jack Ma was a teacher of English. He grew up in a Chinese province. And he just wanted to do something amazing. He would go to a hotel, to tourists, and he would speak English to them, because he wanted to go to the United States. He really wanted to do that. And he went to the United States, and he wanted to find some Chinese products, and he couldn't. He googled it, and now, like 50% of Kazakhstan does this business on Taobao, Alibaba, etc. 1688, etc. So, he created the revolution, basically, and he is alive and well. Геннадий Головкин Эй, кто-то из Караганды? Окей Голова... Да, да Что касается Майкл Дук? Время опасно? Нет, Гетта, время плохо? Геннадий был родился в Майкл Дук Террористический место Он мог бы обвинять О, я жилой Моя слабая Но он не обидел thing you know and today i will say that he's one of the few people who can actually wake us up in the middle of the night yeah and uh have fun essentially right that's he's he he's he's one of us but he's now a famous ufc fighter up next think about it yes uh He used to be a shepherd, by the way. Think about it. This guy used to be a shepherd. Then he moved to Astana and he won the contest and stayed here. Was he born with a silver spoon in his mouth? No. Nobody's born a brand. Nobody's born a star. Look, you have a chance. You have an opportunity to prove yourself. So do that. One thing you need to do. So you have a dream. Great. You need to have specific deadlines Write down specific deadlines So, I mean, put some frame into it Because one thing is to just have a perpetual dream But you need to be specific You need to have a deadline Otherwise, it's not going to happen For example, like two weeks ago For example, I started my Telegram channel Prior to that, I had a KPI For example, I want to make sure I have 100,000 subscribers So, I will have like lotteries I will have giveaways iPhone, car, whatever, but I need to get to 100,000 subscribers. So if you don't have a specific goal, if you don't have that, then it's never going to happen. Like, for example, I need to write the book before this and that. Yeah, you need to be specific. Otherwise, it's never going to happen. So I need to hit on one spot all the time. For example, they invite me to different forums. I speak in different forums every week. Why? Well, because I promote the same message over and over and over again. For example, right now I'm on stage. This is going to stories. This is going for social networks, etc. So that means that every single day I'm basically selling front row tickets to my movie. Yeah, to my movie. This is my movie. You can do that too. We live in social networks. The 21st century internet is cheap. Wi-Fi is cheap. I will have great internet connection in Kazakhstan. By the way, you know that in Kazakhstan, one of the best. They are in China, for example, sometimes much worse. In many parts of China, there is no Wi-Fi. And you have this VPN, whatever. We don't have any limitations, so you can go anywhere online. Raise your hand if you don't have an Instagram account. Wow, certain people that don't have an Instagram account. Unbelievable. Maybe, like, you have a special job that prohibits to have an Instagram. Why don't you have an Instagram? What happened to you? And, Dinara, you're running out of time. unfortunately no time well what i'm saying no matter i was just saying that look you have an opportunity just share just write it down you are what you say yeah if you don't say if you don't speak about yourself if you don't show your life if you don't show the backstage and nobody's going to know about you guys yeah share it share about the book you're doing whatever it is yeah uh like for example you said you wanted to be a noble prize winner of course well ninety percent of people say yeah yeah yeah whatever they're always naysayers and they're always haters haters gonna hate but you go and chase that dream okay and if the dream is big enough everything else will just vanish in comparison to that by the way speaking of being persistent we're gonna have a next speaker and uh in the meanwhile thank you dinara thank you and give her a round of applause please Субтитры сделал DimaTorzok complicated word crypto mining capital so if that's your dream then the next speaker is here to share his wealth of knowledge about it so islam back so zhanov is here a famous businessman uh chairman of the kazakh association of blockchain evangelists so here is here to share his vision of future technology islam back we're waiting for you Субтитры подогнал «Симон» Қайрлы күн, қурметті жастар, бірншэнен баршанысты кэшаганаб уткен, Қазақ республици мерекесмен ұттүктаймын баршанызға зор, ден саулык, ұзақ бақт. So I congratulate everyone with that So Well I see a lot of people here So and thank you Maksad of course for having me here It's an honor to actually speak to you guys And before I begin Before I begin, before I talk about this amazing digital world, I would like to say a couple of words about an amazing world of business. Because my whole life I've been basically a businessman and I've been a promoter of entrepreneurship and private business. I believe that being an entrepreneur is the most noble of all jobs in the world. Казахстан So it was very difficult. It was very difficult. So, but, I really wanted to do something in this life. Of course, long story short, of course, I can talk for hours about it. But the point is that, look, today, opportunity is like never before. So, and you can do it. So, as long as you want it, want to become an entrepreneur, as long as you want to conquer your fear, and, look, especially now, When the world is becoming more and more digital, we have internet, we have hundreds of thousands of free books, free access. You know, as long as you want it, you can have it. So, you can have online education and what not. and you know you know we have incredible opportunities to tune in to Harvard, Yale, Princeton universities you know other leading universities around the world at an affordable cost so the world is changing for sure now speaking of the digital world well you know then when internet was born very few people People actually knew, okay, you have email, you have this and that. Very few engineers were using internet. Then websites, static websites, very basic, very primitive. And then slowly, bit by bit, internet would go deeper and deeper into our lives. And now, look at where we are. So, can you imagine your life without internet? No, you cannot. You can't do without Facebook, YouTube, online, without the web. Even more so, we have all these new technologies like blockchain. And blockchain, I believe, is that thing. You know, it's going to surpass internet. Blockchain technology is at the dawn. It's the very early beginning. So, and if you go back to the roots of internet, it took more than 30 years for internet to enter our homes the way we see it now. The same for blockchain, essentially, right? It's been around 13 years, I would say less than 10% of people understand what is blockchain and how to use it. According to conservative forecasts, the people who are going to use blockchain will be many, many more. If you look at the next 15 to 20 years, I think that this technology will be fully accepted. This is a revolutionary technology and this will change the world. It will change the financial world. You know that there are many countries in the world where there is no banking infrastructure. There is no fast internet like optic fibers that we use. They don't have mobile. And technology can help you leapfrog. So you don't need the banking infrastructure. You can actually do P2P via crypto. So, etc., etc. I don't want to talk about blockchain and such. I hope you guys know what blockchain stands for. So, I mean, you know, it's a decentralized ledger. And you know the Bitcoin, right? You've heard about Bitcoin. But not everybody understands actually what Bitcoin stands for, what digital mining stands for, despite the fact that because of our association, because of the Kazakhstan Association, you know, because of what we've done, and you know, that would be the major, major work with the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the parliament, with the president's office and president of a country who personally supported crypto in a big way. So Kazakhstan is the second largest country in the world in digital mining, by the way, right now. It's a major, major achievement. And honestly, so, I mean, think about it. I mean, we're still a developing country, but we are second in blockchain and digital economy that's not oil not gas not grain not agriculture have nothing against that but think about it you know how we leapfrogged and became one of the best in the world in digital mining so uh and i believe that the fact that not everyone understands how blockchain works how big blockchain can be how big bitcoin can be trust me i mean this whole financial industry you know how it is right you made some money you bought it in the bank it's a deposit the bank pays you percentage that and the bank gives this bank to gives us money to us to entrepreneurs there's always an intermediary right whether it's a lawyer whether it's a bank with somebody else there's always an intermediary between people because of blockchain there's no need for an intermediary it's technology that connects us p2p and because of that we don't need another human we don't need another element in between us so this technology basically gives you an incredible trust uh trust between clients and i think this is uh the most important thing and uh i'm talking about transactions in the first place you know bitcoin like five six eight years ago uh bitcoin was trading at a much lower but look at now it's you know not so long ago it was trading at almost 70 thousand dollars per bitcoin how come what are the functions of bitcoin the main one is that people want to preserve their capital so why i remember 1991 when the union collapsed my parents actually used to save a lot so there was saving and saving and then when the union collapsed all that money disappeared huh and look at the ruble devaluation look at uh i remember tengay used to trade for 150 and then you know what happened yeah tengay also devaluated so so you save you work hard you put it in the bank and then it devaluates so what bitcoin gives us is the project to preserve capital and secondly why people invest in bitcoin Bitcoin is not just a preserved capital, but you can call it digital assets. But digital assets actually allow you to make money. So the price of Bitcoin goes up, appreciates over time, and you can make money on that. So that's the point. Yes, I know Bitcoin is currently down, and crypto miners are worried. Yes, and it's not the best time for them. It's like a crypto winter, as we call it. But as long as the technology is there you know that there only 121 million that has been mined 19 of them were mined When it was trading lower nobody cared Now, only 2 million left to mine. Bitcoin is shrinking every second year. I talked to some of the global experts, and they said that and they say that the price will go up to a hundred thousand five hundred thousand some say one million some say up to five million dollars per bitcoin i believe in that because there's only two million to mine think about it and everybody wants to buy bitcoin like seven billion people want to buy a bitcoin of which only two million left why because you want to preserve capital and you want to appreciate your capital and uh what is the benefit of bitcoin well for me i come from traditional ways of doing business i've been in agriculture i've been in oil and gas i've been transportation i've been everywhere but when i learned the technology and i took my time of course yeah i read some books uh i read top five global books on bitcoin and we translated it into kazakhstan in kazakh by the way it's going to be provided free to all universities in kazakhstan eversion so i would like to actually ask you to read these books and these books will change your life you will see new opportunities opportunities of these technologies and you will uh again can make money honestly honest money in this new industry this new dawn of crypto epoch and because of the mining uh there's money there's this bitcoin because of bitcoin there's thousands of crypto exchanges talking about trillions of dollars in volumes and because of that we have companies unicorns that in a couple of years went up to 1 billion in valuation it's never happened before it's absolutely unprecedented think about it so many apps yeah uh we have nfts we have all this stuff yeah so we have tokenization of economy uh we have uh it's meta universes think Think about it, based on blockchain. And it's pretty amazing. So in the past, our children used to spend our money playing games. Now, children make money playing games. Think about it. So, and because of this technology, you now have an opportunity to... And we're talking about millions and millions and millions of young people. They can do amazing things. And I would like to draw your attention to this industry. I would like to draw your attention to this amazing... The world is changing as we speak. And banking, if it doesn't transform, will die. So the banking as we know it, like taxis, for example, yeah? Think about it. Uber doesn't have any taxes, but it's the biggest one in the world. Yeah? Or Yandex, for example. Technology is scaling up. Or Airbnb. I mean, the banking will actually face the same crisis. Unless banks transform themselves, they will face extinction. There will be startups that will overthrow them. Like, for example, these two young guys in a garage, for example, as we speak, build a company. And in a couple of years, it will be worth one billion. Like Crypto Valley, for example. You know, people from around the world go there. They are dreaming of creating a company to change the world. So, honestly, you know, I'm really, really happy and proud to be an entrepreneur because we've done so many great projects. So, and we changed the society with charity and whatnot. So, and I see that the business is changing the world. And I would like to recommend two books. I've read thousands of books in my career. and two books that inspired me, I'd say inspired me, is the history of, the story of Elon Musk and Tesla and the road to the future. So, if you haven't read it, read it. And the second one is by Jeff Bezos, you know, the era of Amazon. So you know when Elon Musk moved from South Africa to the United States, and he was doing all sorts of jobs, he had no money, and now his company is worth $1 trillion. So he is doing things that governments couldn't do, national companies couldn't do it, NASA couldn't do it. He made space traveling 10 times cheaper than NASA. Think about it, and he's a private individual. Jeff Bezos, you know, he started with $10,000. $1.5 trillion in value. So you read these books and it blows your mind. It blows your mind. So it just creates a fire in your belly. So read these two books about Elon Musk and about Jeff Bezos. So there's so many problems in this world. It's a very, very busy world. But look at who's making this a better place. Businessmen. Entrepreneurs. They turn the world for the better. They create new technologies. They steer the world for greater good. For technologies. What if we had more entrepreneurs in Kazakhstan? Kazakhstan would be stronger as a country. Yeah? So, it's a force for good. Because we create jobs. We create opportunities. We bring in technologies. We bring investments. Yeah? So we basically create companies that maybe will one day become unicorns. Think about it. And I always pleaded with young people, always pleaded. So instead of going and asking to become an employee, you can work for yourself. Why not be yourself? Why not become the master of your universe and create new jobs? It's amazing to create new jobs. You know, it's all about fear. Yes, people are afraid. Oh, what if I fail? Yes, that's the biggest problem. Fear, fear basically is a terrible disease for young people. Do not be afraid. Silicon Valley, when investors come to startups, they ask them, Okay, how many companies have you failed? So, if you haven't yet failed, so they don't give you money because you don't have any real experience, right? You're a theoretician. So it's very very important to be a practitioner, to try things, trial and error. So if you haven't failed, then you will never be successful. So you need to create a company, make it bankrupt, then try it again, make it bankrupt, and then try and succeed. That's how it happens. That's the only way. So that's the kind of companies that attract investments. In Silicon Valley, when they say that, you know, learn on other people's mistakes. Sure, but in 29 years of my life, of my company, yeah, we had ups and downs. I make money and I lose money. I make money again, I lose money. But I always get up and go forward. And I received invaluable experience. And that's the prize for success. Look at Elon Musk. Look at the kind of mistakes he made. And now everybody's worshipping. Read his book. It's absolutely phenomenal what he had to go through. What was his you know push him faith faith faith he had faith Is a man of faith? Believing you know the outcome so let me just say that a young people Here today, so have an incredible potential an incredible potential and you see and this are We're gonna have team Draper here and he says that This nation has an amazing potential I believe in it. I meet young people in Kazakhstan

I see an amazing potential in the past 15-20 years. I see they have fire in their belly. They speak three languages fluently. They're advanced, they're moving forward, and they're passionate, they want to change the world. Yes, I do believe that not everyone, of course, will get the chance, but we have this new Kazakhstan, we're building a new Kazakhstan, fair and just Kazakhstan. The president spoke earlier today about this new Kazakhstan, the new era and think about it we can now do business at a totally different level better than ever yes and we had difficulties of course and all that i'm not going to you know dwell on that but today let me just say that uh our country uh gives opportunity to anyone to do amazing things things that you want to do dream big you know chase your dreams you know the same american dream yeah somebody said why not kazakhstan dream yeah they have american dream we can have kazakh dream i was in the united states uh and the same people young i will see a young guys from kazakhstan they create global companies in in america they go through ipos and whatnot they go to india pub you know stuff like that so we can do the same thank you aslanbek and uh let's have a couple of Малютаи, может быть, кто-то мечтает стать бюджетным, специалистам в этой области ну же предпринимательным это предприниматель мы смеялись до ваших вступлений я говорю для меня даже сама это слово криптовалюта до сих пор еще непривычно произносить и вот пока кто-то не может это произнести другие уже строят целые империи делают бизнес общается со всеми специалистам со всего мира это очень здорово что насчет вопросов ребята так можно Можна микрофон, пожалуйста, так поднимите руку здесь нам очень... Вот, у нас есть поднята рука. Несут вам микрофон. Отлично. transform will survive if not then they will become extinct yeah it's it's very black and white situation for them unfortunately I Mean traditional incumbent banks those who want to be bank out there will be on base will be crypto banking There will be a banking open banking whatever digital banks will remain Incumbents will cease to we just don't need it. We don't need in a new digital era. We just don't need it Any other questions? It's actually a very interesting topic and I believe that during this Nobel Fest of course we'll be discussing it big time because of course no technology exists in isolation so definitely we're going to have a new session dedicated to that specifically. Can you tell us a little bit more about your maybe What is your number one success factor? The one thing that actually made you successful? I believe it's faith. It's faith. I have faith. I had difficulties in my life. And there will always be difficulties. But, you know, I had faith. I'm a man of faith. And difficulties never stop me. And I'm a very persistent person. I persevere. Faith and perseverance. Excellent. Hello, and the next question please. Hello, and other than Bitcoin, what other cryptocurrencies do you have in your portfolio? Or maybe do you recommend to buy? That's a great question, and you know there's so many, there are like a hundred thousands of cryptocurrencies out there. I mean, Bitcoin is pretty much digital gold, Ethereum would be digital silver. They go up, they go down, there's boom and bust. So, I mean, there's a lot of analytical information online. So, study this and figure out the technology behind a crypto asset and the value of this for people. If there's no value, then it's not going to survive. If it has a wide area application, then this crypto asset has a future. So, a successful cryptocurrency is a currency that has a good technology behind it that is valuable for many people. So, okay, more questions, please. Yeah. Where are you from and what's your question? I'm local. Oh, yeah, stand up. You're local. Murad is from Astana. He is local, he said. Okay. Okay. So, what would you recommend in terms of, I mean, based on your experience? Where should I start in terms of my crypto, you know, entrepreneurship? You know, what is the first thing I need to do if I want to be a crypto entrepreneur? Good question. Well, first of all, what do you know about cryptos? What do you know about blockchain? Have you read those 5-10 books? No, I have not. No, I have not. You see, there's a problem, my friend. Find the time, take your time to read the book. What are these books? The Epoch of Cryptocurrency, The Technology of Blockchain, The Internet of Things, The Internet of Money, etc. So, we have an association. Go to our website. We have a representative, the chairman of our association. Come to us, go to our website. And I recently gave an interview, of course, and I showed those books. read those books, they're available they're cheap, but we translated it into Kazakh and Russian language so read that, first thing you need to do is read the books, you know, to understand the technology, and then as you read the books, you will figure it out whether you're going to do mining, whether it's going to be trading, whether it's going to be custody services lending services, whatever it's a huge new deep blue ocean thank you, I will definitely have this SMM yeah, repost it, yeah, yeah, yeah, we will definitely like your official recommendations for the books. Good, excellent. Next question, please. Yes, hello, Mr. Islambek. My question to you is just to... Look, when we talk about, you know, Kazakh education, and I was wondering if there is a centralized, Қазахи азулахи, Қазахи азулахи азулахи, Бо студентки Қазахи азулахи азулахи, Куда они идут? Куда они идут за знаниями? Ты имеешь в блокчейн или просто в основном? Я хочу быть честным с тобой, это новые технологии, и нет ни одного центрального срока, я имею, ты не, ты не, ты не, это новая зона, ни одна университет не дает тебе full knowledge so come to us come to our association you know that we've translated some of the best books into Kazakh and Russian so we're currently in negotiations to do more and like I said I wouldn't say this one centralized location right there's no one hub there are many hubs but we're working on this and like I said you can come to our go to our website you know You find a lot of information there But there no one centralized location for getting crypto education so far No, not yet. Maybe in the future. Maybe in the future. Hello, my name is Nazira. So, my question is the following. I was wondering if, as a young entrepreneur, what would you recommend? What trend should I bet on the next 5 or 10 years? Other than Bitcoin and blockchain and whatnot. What should I bet? It's not about Bitcoin. It's about big trends. Here's the problem. Think about it. For the past 15, 20 years, look at where people go. They want to be a lawyer. They want to be an economist. I know drivers, taxi drivers that are both lawyers and economists. And they drive Uber. Why? Because nobody gives a damn about it. There's too many. It's an oversupply of economists. Because everybody wants to be an economist. Look at the trend. Don't just go where your friends go. Look at technology, for example. Look at blockchain. It's a mega trend. It's a powerful trend. So if you know this, even if you're not educated professionally, then you will find a job anywhere in the world. Internet of Things, IoT, artificial intelligence, for example, augmented reality, things like that. Machine Learning, Biotech, etc. All this stuff is a big trend. And they are so ubiquitous. You can go to any area, any industry and you will find applications of this. Study what is needed now, not what is dying out. Tens, maybe hundreds of different jobs will die out. They will not be needed. So follow the trend, follow the white rabbit. Yeah, and the world goes from traditional to digital. Follow the trail. Follow the crumb trail. Well, and maybe one last question. Yeah, and then we're going to move on to the next presentation. What about the stock market? Will it be there in the future? Well, it will be different for sure because there's the traditional stock market and there's the crypto market right and of course it's transforming but stocks will be there i mean people trade stocks and will continue to trade stocks but i mean there will be some more digitalization in this area but i think it will remain thank you thank you for this question so we're actually doing this over time thank you for your uh very inspirational speech and uh i hope that all of your dreams come true and of course more power to you and of course you're doing a lot of great things for the youth yes i would like to thank the organizers of this event in just two years this noble fest has become truly international and i truly truly believe in the future of this project and because it's indeed a project and it's a great project i remember when we used to i mean when was the last time you had an opportunity to listen to noble prize winners it's pretty amazing so continued success thank you thank you very much um so um just to continue on the same front up next we have an exclusive interview with a venture investor number one in the world a crypto billionaire team draper and that was actually prepared uh with the help of kazakhstan association of blockchain and technologies so moving on to team draper so looking forward for the interview by team draper Қазахстан the association that promotes blockchain and other technologies in Kazakhstan and elsewhere. And clearly this interview is for the fifth Nobel fest. So I've got to tell you that I have had a lot of experience with Kazakhstan. We are working with the Kazakhstan government on promoting and creating an ecosystem for entrepreneurship we think that kazakhstan has great potential and this will be a really interesting time we're seeing a lot of interesting entrepreneurs from around the world that are recognizing kazakhstan as potentially as a hub and we're we're trying to make that happen we've built ecosystems in other countries and it's worked out very well so i'm very happy to be Thank you, so kind of you and it's actually Kazakhstan's initiative to actually launch the Nobel fest and this year we have the fifth Nobel fest which is internationally recognized and held actually across various geographies stretching from Uganda to Bangladesh where with several studios across the world and with the main studio in Kazakhstan live right now and Nobel Prize, Nobel Prize winner, breakthrough winner, eminent scientists, experts and business visionaries like yourself with only one important message. Everyone should have a chance to access and benefit from global knowledge. I want to express my gratitude for this wonderful opportunity and for supporting this initiative. I know that you and your family with your father are the the founders of the venture capital investments not only in the US but actually in the world. Well my grandfather was the first Silicon Valley venture capitalist. My father was a venture capitalist, a great pioneer venture capitalist and then he was also the administrator of the UN development program, a big part of the United Nations. Exactly, so I think these three generations of your family have been really promoting the solutions that are impacting everyday lives of billions of people around the globe. So let's come to your success story. Tim, you have an outstanding business portfolio over the last 20 years especially. What motivates and inspires you to continue your success story? Well success breeds success. We have really been fortunate in that I kind of have an instinct for an entrepreneur and what an entrepreneur is and thinks about. Often the entrepreneur is willing to look a little bit off the track. Most people like to just stay in their lane. A good entrepreneur is willing to say, Hey, is this the best way to do it or is there a better way to do it? And so I look for that in people. And I love that. But once we started to have success, I realized what a huge impact that these entrepreneurs could have on the world. When we did Hotmail, we didn't realize that we were moving communications around the world for free. Before that if I were to try to get a message to you in Kazakhstan from here in the Silicon Valley I not sure we could have it would have actually ever gotten there Whether you know we would have cut down trees written things on paper licked poison put it in an envelope would have gone in a car to an airplane to who knows it might have been on a yak going to Kazakhstan back then Well, now it's instantaneous. Everybody gets the same information as quickly as it comes out. And that is due to one of our companies, Hotmail. And then Skype made it so that you can see me and we don't even have to be in the same place. It's like you travel instantaneously without having to get on the airplane and going. Those companies have made a huge impact on the world. Tesla might be saving the world. And that was a company we backed just from the very beginning. And now they're worth, I think, a trillion dollars in the market cap. But it also is an opportunity for us to travel around on a vehicle that does not use gasoline, and that is a major breakthrough. We think that it's entrepreneurs that are going to make the big impact on the world. And if we've got a climate change issue, it's going to be entrepreneurs that solve it. If we've got a governance issue, it's going to be entrepreneurs that solve it. The problems are always stated by the states people the the Government officials that they find problems, but the ones who solve these problems are usually entrepreneurs and they'll solve it for one customer and then they'll solve it for many customers and then These things will spread around the world. So yeah, I'm motivated I I want to be in the venture capital business because I get a chance to meet with these people who might have an extraordinary impact on the world. This brings us, Tim, to the next question about your ability to see the big picture of technological transformations. Could you please share Tim Draper's list of technologies that will shape and transform the world in the 21st century, and do you believe they would help against the biggest challenges of humanity? Yeah, well I've been able to see certain waves happen. I mean when the hardware came out, the computer came out, and then the personal computer, those were big breakthroughs and they started to affect other industries. And then when software came out, started to affect other industries. When the internet came out, it transformed some of the biggest industries in the world. Communications, information, gaming, entertainment, media, all these industries were transformed by the internet. Internet. Well now we have another technology. It started with Bitcoin. It's the blockchain and everything around Bitcoin in the blockchain. And those technologies now have the potential to transform not just banking, which is the obvious one because Bitcoin is a currency that's transparent and open and global. You can use it anywhere. Keeps perfect records. It's a great new breakthrough. In current But also other industries like finance. I can imagine a time where I raise a fund completely in Bitcoin. I invest in entrepreneurs all in Bitcoin. They pay their employees and suppliers all in Bitcoin. And the whole thing in the taxes are taken care of and the records are kept perfectly on the blockchain. That would be a major breakthrough in finance. So, banking, finance, insurance. I think insurance is about to go through a major transformation. We can use the blockchain for insurance. We can use surveillance plus the blockchain. Right now, you pay your premium, you pay your premium, you pay your premium, and then you have a claim. Well, a great insurance company entrepreneur might figure out that you pay your premiums, but then surveillance can tell them that your house is burning down. They can send you a check before you even knew your house was burning down. That kind of thing can really change insurance. Real estate's going to change because people now can own pieces of buildings through tokenization. And government's going to change. Already governments are competing with one another. When I told your government, the prime minister, two back, your prime minister about how I was the third Estonian virtual resident, he said, we're going to have a virtual residency program. And I think that has been implemented. and so that was competitive governance. Governance having to be accountable to their citizens because they want more citizens and they want more income. So governance is going to change and there is a new technology there, the DAO, the decentralized autonomous organization, that can change the nature of what a government is. And a lot of different companies are experimenting. Starting with Tezos, but Jur is changing the way a jury operates. Some, Aragon is showing how a liquid democracy could operate. Governments are going to be able to change in big, huge ways. And so these are the biggest industries in the world. Real estate banking insurance finance. Those are the biggest industries in the world oil is one but So We're gonna see some of the biggest sea changes in The world because of these new technologies around Bitcoin in the blockchain. So this is an exciting time Since you already mentioned about the Britain and Bitcoin and the crypto world We are moving now to the crypto world and three years ago in one of the interviews you mentioned that Elon Musk was the most impactful entrepreneur in the world. But you also said that if you ask me this question three years later, you would say it was Satoshi Nakamoto. So has your view become stronger ever since and what role cryptocurrencies will play in the future? Well, I think I still think Steve Jobs has made a huge impact on our world. Elon Musk has made a huge impact on our world. But I actually think Satoshi Nakamoto may end up being the one who has made the biggest impact on our world longer term because he is changing the biggest industries in the world. I think when you have that kind of an impact on the world, you should be the hero. Well, the other thing is that I think that Satoshi has allowed humanity to go through an anthropological leap forward. And the way I would argue that to be the case is, currency has already gone through a lot of number of different changes. We started by trading shells with each other and then it was gold and then it was the promise of gold. And then it was something that says the government will support you. And now it even more abstract It went to credit cards and now it Bitcoin well when humans now have a currency where they don need a trusted third party to operate so I could send you Bitcoin I don need to send it through a bank to another bank I can just send you Bitcoin And that peer-to-peer sending of money is an anthropological leap, but the biggest anthropological leap I see is the decentralized autonomous organizations. think about this think about governance generally it has always been there's been a border between two people and these people say okay we'll operate in the way we operate, you operate in the way you operate and we won't cross that border you don't cross that border well we have these arbitrary borders they're geographic and so each of our countries Our governments have a monopolistic position. And so they have never thought in terms of providing good service for a low cost the way every business in the world thinks about it. Well, there is getting to be that time where people are able to move, businesses can move, money can move anywhere around the world. And so what does that mean? And that money can be accepted anywhere around the world. Bitcoin is accepted anywhere around the world. Well, what that means is that we citizens are going to be looked at more as customers and governments are going to be looked at more as businesses and they're going to have to improve, be accountable to their people. They're going to have to delight their citizens or the citizens will move to another government. That will bring humanity way up. And the DAOs, the reason I keep bringing up the DAOs is I think about, let's say, Jeff Bezos creates Amazon. He builds this business. It's an extraordinary business. People started attacking him because of schadenfreude or jealousy or whatever. And because they're saying he's rich and I'm not. Well, what if when you start a business, it's a DAO instead of a corporation? A corporation is for the benefit of the founder, the employees, and the investors generally. And then when it goes public, anybody can buy it. But until then, you know, it's really for those three. Well, a DAO can be for the benefit of those three, but it can also be for the benefit of customers and suppliers and the community. And a DAO can be set up in any number of different ways, and that can change the way humanity operates. And if I am a DAO holder of a company like Amazon, I'm saying, go, Jeff, go. Right. And if I'm not, then I'm saying, oh, you cut him down, whatever. And so I actually think that the Dow will actually change the whole mindset of humanity down the road. But first, we're going to see governments competing with one another for us, for the money, for the entrepreneurs, for the businesses, for the humans. Right. You've already zoomed out to a larger picture and I'm mindful of time. That's why I guess other questions would be in terms of the startups and the investments. And for many years, the Silicon Valley was probably the only place for startups to become truly global. Do you believe today that the birthplace and the geography of startups matters and how investors like you find future unicorns and how, what features should they demonstrate to attract investments? So here's where I say freedom. And I think entrepreneurs of the future, right now entrepreneurs come to the Silicon Valley because it's free. The country is free. Silicon Valley is 3,000 miles away from Washington, so we don't have regulators breathing down our necks. Yes, that freedom makes all the difference for an entrepreneur. The ability to try things, to experiment, and not to have to go fill out forms for regulators. If you're starting a business, you don't want it to fit into the mold that a regulator has created. You want it to create its own mold. You want it to be something entirely different. Let the regulators catch up later. Freedom is the place where entrepreneurs will go. Freedom is starting to happen in other countries. The argument I always make is North and South Korea. North Korea is a government-controlled socialist communist military dictatorship. Government tells everybody what to do. Government decides what you get to eat, how you get to live, everything. South Korea was free. Free open system, free market, free speech. They were a democracy. They were a capitalistic society. And now that experiment is now more than 70 years old. And the line that delineated South from North Korea is still there. The demilitarized zone is still there. Very few people have crossed that line. What's happened in 70 years? Well, now the average South Korean makes 460 times what the average North Korean makes. And the average South Korean is now four inches taller than the average North Korean. So given those constraints, it's pretty clear that the freedom works. South Korean entrepreneurs are prevalent. They're everywhere. There are some great South Korean entrepreneurs. Many unicorns have come from South Korea. The woman I met who has escaped from North Korea said that the government counts out 24 kernels of corn and says, that's your lunch. And that's why they're smaller and starving. And I remember her looking up at me. She was about four foot two and I'm about six foot four. And she looked up at me and she said, if I had grown up in a free country, I'd be looking you eye to eye. And I think that that freedom is in lots of different places around the world now. I mean, El Salvador, suddenly El Salvador has become a very free place. entrepreneurs are starting to flock to El Salvador. They're making Bitcoin a national currency. You're starting to see that kind of thing happen. Freedoms start to happen and entrepreneurs will thrive under those governances. And so that's why I think eventually the governments have to provide services that the people will want. and the people will be able to choose the government that's right for them. I appreciate the comparisons and the parallels you're drawing to really get the message across. But coming to the talents and education system, the Draper University successfully operates since 2012, and many alumni have become successful startup runners and entrepreneurs. I wonder if you can share briefly your thoughts on the weaknesses of traditional education and what universities do not give us in order to enable us to become entrepreneurs. That's a great, great question.

I started Draper University thinking that no school has really figured out how to encourage entrepreneurs or create entrepreneurs. And I remember people telling me entrepreneurship can't be taught. And whenever anybody says something can't happen, I always think, huh, how would I do it? If I were to do it, how would I do it? And then I came up with a system and I realized, oh, I've got it. There is a better way to teach students. Students today are from the society way back when where people would, everybody lines up in seats. They all taught, the one professor talks, everybody takes notes. then they are tested to make sure that they understood everything that the professor said and if they make no mistakes they get an A, they get the high grade. Well, what happens if somebody in the back of the class is sitting there, he gets a bad grade, but he was listening to the professor and he was also thinking for himself and he was saying hey there's there's another way to do this or whatever the the classes today are all about don't make mistakes but that guy in the back of the class is thinking I'll take a chance and if I make a mistake I'll try something else and then I'll make another mistake and then I'll try something else and I'll be successful and and I so I think this willingness us to fail and to try new things is something that is not well taught in our education system and I understand it because if you're a professor you need control over the class and if you don't have control over the class you don't feel like you can teach them anything but I think that is wrong-headed and there are lots of ways for you to teach a class I have learned that a really good way to teach is to break the class into teams of five and make them and give them projects and that has been magic if they're in a team of two they don't think they can accomplish anything and if they're a team of ten then people can hide but if they're five they can accomplish anything and that it it's amazing i have given challenges where i thought this is going to be impossible and it turns out it's not impossible and they come back and they say done now you're already talking about the motivation for uh for the audience and uh a lot of participants of noble fest are young or future entrepreneurs and so please share your wisdom what it takes to be a successful entrepreneur in this rapidly changing uh technologically intense world well you know lo que es interesante es que en algunas maneras un mercado limpio es bueno para los emprendedores porque cuando es un mercado limpio, cualquiera puede empezar un negocio y simplemente convierten a alguien para darles dinero y luego obtienen dinero y luego van, pero si realmente quieren construir un gran negocio, no un buen business but a great business then you need to start it from scratch and do it to delight your customer to make your customer feel that that certain vibe that you're trying to send so hard that they then become your sales force and i think that only happens in a bear market i think when money is not easily available, when money is not running rampant, it's much easier to start thinking, how do I get my customer to pay me money? And that is the best way to build a business. Make your customer delighted, so delighted that they become your sales force. Mr. Draper, thank you so much for your time and your brilliant insights. We admire your passion, your motivation to so many people around the world and we wish you every success in your endeavors as well. So thank you. Terrific. Very great to see you and go Kazakhstan. Thank you. during acute level of stress and then live joining us of course someone who is behind science and technology the founder of crystallography Commission dr. Artyom and Gara is going to share some amazing discoveries in science and traveling to the depth of the earth So, and right now we're going to have a very short coffee break, but please come back after this very important message. Что происходит в период кризиса? Как решать проблемы в вашей жизни? Как решать кризис в вашей жизни? Как улучшить силу психической здоровье? and strengthen your mental health and in order to get the resistance to a bad day and all these questions and more will be answered by our today's speaker who is a trainer and coach from Germany and also she is an author of the book a 30-minute life design and she is a minister of happiness and also how once an old stranger an old woman in the supermarket called her she an angel please meet miss gina shirley hi thank you sabina thank you for the nice invitation and introduction and i'm really glad to talk to you the next 30 minutes and give you some impulses some insights into the positive psychology so hi everyone hi to kazakhstan thank you so much for the invitation i'm more than happy that i can be part of this year's nobel fest at least digitally because i'm pregnant right now i couldn't make the big trip from germany to kazakhstan but hopefully next year there will be the chance again i'm already very excited about the following session but before i jump in right into the topic i would like to introduce myself first a little bit as sabina already says i'm gina schuler i'm from germany and the so-called founder from the initiative called ministry of happiness and well-being here in the german-speaking countries which apparently turns 10 years this november unbelievable and with this initiative we create awareness for very important social issues such as as already mentioned mental health life satisfaction and we do encourage people to focus on the really important questions of life which are for example yeah in which world do we really want to live in what does count in life what values are important to us as individuals and of course in society and in the in the wider society in the world Personally, it is super important to equip people with ideas, with impulses, with inspirations from the wide and super interesting field of positive psychology and the happiness research that are both scientifically super well founded and close to everyday life. and this makes it so interesting for me. And because I believe that every one of us can easily take the good life into your own hands, at least to a certain extent, you just have to know how to do it, and that's what you can expect from this session, from these 30 minutes from my talk. I give you a lot of input from science, from the happiness research, but at the same time i'm trying to to share i give you some starting points on how you can make your life a little bit more mindful and hopefully a little bit more happy by following some very very simple methods and tips and tricks and i will start with a rhetorical question and i ask you from one heart to another what is the biggest enemy of our well-being and of our mental health and there's a little hint it is a feeling that every one of you knows for sure we sometimes experience this feeling at work when we have troubles at home or maybe when we miss a train or when we are stuck in traffic and the answer is very simple the feeling is stress and especially in these times which are crazy times full of turbulences and crisis all around we feel a lot of pressure and we feel a lot of stress like physical stress and emotional stress on the outside and on the inside so feel free to to ask yourself to have a little check in when was the last time you were really stressed out you were really under pressure what was the situation what was the person what was the thing that got you so stressed out was it maybe a lecture was it an approaching deadline was it traffic on the on the way to work maybe was it a mishap or an emotional struggle at home or maybe on a bigger picture the the whole world situation in germany we call it weltschmerz it's a very famous word worldwide and as we all know yes stress is omnipresent in today today's society and i'm sure it's not only in the society of germany you may know it in kazakhstan as well in this world full of tasks and to do's and expectations and performance pressure and higher faster more in this world we live in and there's an annual global emotions report by the polling institute gallop you might have heard of it we have um and this this this polling institute this annual report it says that we have now reached a new high on terms of global stress levels and it says that more than one-third of 150 000 respondents from more than 140 countries worldwide they said they suffer from stress and honestly that doesn't surprise me at all because sometimes i have the feeling that yeah the world we live in today it went off the rails the pandemic the wars the climate crisis all around the burden of political social environmental issues it lies heavily on our shoulders to be honest and i'm feeling the same even if i'm so deep into the positive psychology and i'm working on happiness since 10 years it is it is heavy and it is not easy nowadays to stay optimistic to be honest so the obvious questions are how can we cope with all the bad news around and how can we manage not buckle under the resulting stress how can we build up our so-called resilience to get better through these crazy times and live well more or or less or at least stay mentally healthy in a world full of uncertainty the fact is every one of us struggles in their own way and there's one important message i want to give you nevertheless i don't care where you live how old you are where coming from What religion you have whatsoever. It's okay not to be okay, especially nowadays. And it's okay to have struggles and it's okay to have problems and it's okay to feel not happy in these days. And we all have our baggage to carry and very individual moments that throw us off track every now and then. According to surveys, the biggest stress factors include, and I will show you, one big stress factor, as you might guess, is an overload in job and studies and school. There is a super high demand of expectations of oneself. We always want to win. We always want more. We want to achieve goals. We want to have a great career or whatsoever. We always want this higher, faster, more. This is another big factor of our personal stress. Maybe you have a beloved person in your personal environment, maybe a family member or a friend which suffers from illness. This is another emotional stress factor. Or maybe you have conflicts in the partnership or in the family And this is a big struggle we have to deal with every day or you might know this as well i do actually to be honest maybe you have too many appointments you have too less time you have too many obligations and lack of compensation in leisure time and as you can see and feel and hear it's too much it's too much going on it's too much for our soul to to handle all that and the trigger of stress often results from the big expectations that either we ourselves or our environment have on us after all we want to live up to everyone's expectations and we want that no one is disappointed so what we do and this is not very healthy for our mental health what we do is we spin one round after another in the very famous hamster wheel we are often inside of that in our everyday lives nevertheless it's in your private life or in your in your job life and because of that we lose the connection to ourselves we lose the connection to our feelings to our needs and to our truth self and the thing is it's not even entirely our own fault after all we of course we are shaped by the society that surrounds us I was born and raised here in Germany and as you might know the German society is really much performance driven and this understanding is passed on from one generation to the next. So it's super important to fit in and to function. and what you should know is achievement per se is not necessarily a bad thing because humans are a motivated species we want to perform and we want to satisfy our need for achievement but the thing is this attitude can also tip over if one crosses his or her red line so a performance driven society is not bad in general but it needs limits and it needs the ability to set healthy boundaries to know your personal resources it is important and healthy to learn how to say no or stop every now and then and otherwise if we don't do that we are maybe no longer human beings but we mutate to some kind of human doings and this is not the the goal we we want to reach somehow i don't know how but we have forgotten how to shift into this idle state we maybe forgot how to let go and relax and maybe to simply do nothing it sounds so easy but it's so hard We have forgotten to accomplish nothing and, this is the turning point, still be worth something even if we do nothing. We forgot how not to be productive and even, and this is the tricky part, even be bored. And the fun fact is, boredom is super important and healthy because boredom leads to creativity and innovation. But on the other side, we are like programmed to function and deliver always and everywhere. And as you might understand and might see and feel, this approach to life does mean stress, of course. Because if you believe you have to perform and function all the time, you will always find for sure something to do to bridge any small potential break, to take a pause and to take a breath. So in this world, in my opinion, in this world, doing nothing could be a sign of rebellion, especially when everyone and everything is spinning around so fast and so crazy around during these days. So let's be small rebels for one minute. And I invite you to do nothing but take a deep breath for 60 seconds and just sit down, relax your shoulders, breathe down to your belly and enjoy the moment for yourself, enjoy the silence. Let's try this out. You might close your eyes. Think about how you're feeling right now. Feel the ground under your feet. Just take your time. As easy as that. It feels great, doesn't it? What happens in our brain when we feel stressed out, when we feel the stress? And the question is, what is good stress and is bad stress? There's this mechanism that is unwound in our brain when we feel stress, and this is not inherently bad. In the first place, stress is actually harmless and even, and this is an interesting fact, even essential for our lives. When we are in a stressful situation, our body prepares us for a threat. And this is an evolutionary reaction, of course. What used to be the good old saber-toothed tiger is now maybe a lecture, a project deadline, traffic jam, or the so-called world situation, the Weltschmerz. When we are stressed, our brain stimulates the release of a bunch of hormones such as cortisol or adrenaline in a very short time. As a result, our senses are sharpened, we are ready to perform, we are ready to jump, to fight or flight, to perform at our best in the blink of an eye. At the same time, our breathing becomes faster. That's why it's important to take time and take a deep breath. Our heart starts pounding and our hands get sweaty. In charge for that reaction, our autonomic nervous system, or rather the sympathetic nervous system, which regulates all these body functions, is in our stressful situations, in the stressful phases. By the way, the counterpart of the so-called sympathetic nervous system is the parasympathetic nervous system. It's a hard word. And this takes over responsibility for our organ activity, for our relaxation when our body is in rest phases. Unfortunately we have nothing to gain from it if it is not allowed to control our body functions from time to time and provide us with rest and balance So what we could do is to take a closer look on how balanced our nervous system is Do we focus on the sympathetic nervous system, like let's go, let's move on, let's run in the hamster wheel? Or do we focus every now and then on the parasympathetic nervous system to take time to calm down, to let your body relax and reload energy for difficult times. so it's all about in the end it's all about balance again and not forget about the rest faces and i know it's super hard i'm also a person who runs every day and who wants to save the world and has a lot of energy and i have to remind myself also to just take a break and just one minute at least usually stressful situations also normally have an end and then tension and excitement subside in this short lasting phase stress can even be perceived as strengthening strengthening and this is why we often talk about oishtress i don't know the english pronunciation but it's written like oil stress i can write it down in the chat section if you're interested in that it's also called the positive stress but the thing is if we are permanently stressed however our body remains on alert all the time and as a result stress related hormones in the blood and the blood pressure remain high and no longer reach normal healthy levels and we then talk about the so-called distress which is the negative stress so I stress is the positive stress and distress is the negative stress but it's not a bad thing in general in fact it's just supposed to help us release enough energy at just the right time and to increase our performance in the short term so that we survive this is nice from the evolution but this cannot be denied permanent stress of course is harmful to our health and the consequences can range from increased blood pressure to an increased risk of dying from heart attack or maybe strokes and of course mental illnesses such as burnout or depression as you might also know and it is not necessarily the stress itself that burdens us and makes us sick in the long run but rather our attitude our perspective towards stress the framing we give these situation so the question is how can we change that perspective how can we change that point of view and Maybe it's all about managing these hard situations and all these challenges we have to face nowadays. When I look at my personal environment and the society in which I live in, I think it's super high time for a change in values. Away from the permanent pressure towards a self-determined and more intuitive and natural living and life. nd in this way we promote not only our mental health but also social and environmental sustainability and the thing is how can we initiate this change in values and first and foremost we should start the change as always within ourselves and I really do appreciate the principle fill your cup first because only those who take good care of themselves and who invest enough time and energy and resources in their own mental health, in their own resilience and well-being can also be in the power to be an important support and source of energy for other people, especially in difficult times. and if you're able to fill your cup first and have enough energy and power you can act as a role model and show others how important and sometimes easy it is to say no every now and then you remember this because every no is also a yes to yourself so it's really important to set healthy boundaries and And in order to strengthen our psychological protective shield, which is resilience, there's a very simple formula that we can use as a guideline. And it's called, let me show you, so it's easy to remember, it's called HERO. And hero is an acronym and it stands for hope, efficiency, resilience, and last but not least, optimism. And all these, I will copy and paste you that too in the chat section. And all these puzzle pieces have a positive effect on our perception of stress and allow us to get through these times more calmly. and this is what we need especially in times of crisis and let me give you some insights why hero is so important so let's talk about hope hope is our driving force and energy that we need to pursue our goals and gifts it gives us the necessary determination to continue with them even after some setbacks and it can also and this is scientifically proven mobilize enormous self healing powers efficiency or self efficiency means having this inner conviction that we can master even difficult and challenging situations well and that we can do so out of our own strength and power and and yet this efficiency is some kind of a guarantee we give ourselves that even if everything around us falters and is unsure and unsafe, we can still count on ourselves on our competences on our abilities and and talents and strengths and resilience. Resilience is a super abstract word. It is the ability to overcome setbacks and grow from negative experience more or less. I always imagine it as a sponge that can be easily squeezed obviously, but as soon as the pressure is off, it immediately springs back into its original shape. and resilience works a little similar like that yeah and last but not least optimism of course as i already said it's not really easy nowadays but we really do need it more than ever and optimistic people look positively into the future they are solution oriented they are They are creative, they know that they can contribute to good life themselves. However, being optimistic, and this is important for me to say, because it's a big misunderstanding which comes along with happiness and well-being, and optimism does not mean that we walk through life with these famous rose-colored,

tinted glasses optimism means having yeah like a fundamentally positive attitude towards life and not losing hope for a good ending even in difficult situations and it's also healthy it makes sense to practice being optimistic even now because there are researchers from no no way and they found out that an optimistic way of living it it said it should increase the life expectancy up to 20 percent so it's worth it to work on it so much for the theory but how exactly can we put this into action and into practice now how can we activate the little hero in us um i think the The first step is to recognize and to accept the difficult situations. First of all, it's about recognizing a stressful or burdensome situation and then accepting it without judging the situation, without judging the feeling you might have. This is not easy because negative feelings like stress, fear, anxiety, whatever you're feeling right now, these so-called negative feelings, they have an absolute right to exist. And this is important to say because otherwise we are acting the toxic positivity and this is not healthy for our mental health as well. And these feelings they try to guide and they try to protect us accordingly we should also allow them, and not suppress them because maybe some inner voice or some inner critics whispers to us and judges us like, don't be like that. that don't feel like that and so on and once we have accomplished this stadium of acceptance we can consider what we can change about the situation or what is maybe beyond our control and this is important because it saves us an enormous amount of energy and time that we would otherwise waste at least getting upset about something that is not within our personal sphere of influence. And maybe in the end it's all about reflection and getting to know all the facets of your life and all the facets of your character and your personal well-being. In order to do that, we should get to know what we really want in the first place. place so take your time and take your space to sit down and reflect on your status quo every now and then listen deeply to yourself to your needs to your feelings to your emotions and ask yourself honestly how am i really doing right now am i happy with the way things are going what is on my mind what do i need in the very next moment and then the important next step would be take action whether it's quitting the job i don't care maybe it's a job you're sacrificing for maybe it's ending the toxic relationship getting professional support for your career getting professional support for your mental health at least get active in your own sphere of influence and during all these things you could do don't forget to celebrate your small and bigger successes because in stressful in in times of crisis it can help to look back at past successes and to remember what you already have mastered, what you already have done, what already went well, because that is usually much more than we expect of ourselves. What helps me personally to remember my successes in difficult phases, especially when the little person pops up on my shoulder with all the criticism and what I should do and not do, I regularly write down special moments when something great has happened to me or when I was proud of myself or I collect positive feedback and I write these things down and collect it in some kind of a happiness jar. You can do the same and collect these moments in a little glass or whatsoever on a board in your office or at your home, maybe together with your colleagues or friends or family. just get any idea how to collect your little moments of happiness and successes to have a look at it and to to gain energy during phases that are not so easy to you and this brings me to the next part identify your happiness resources because we will sooner or later we will find ourselves in the in the next bad situation in the next stressful situation again for sure and we should start investing in our resilience resilience right now in order to do that we should become become aware of the resources that help us with that and these resources could be our social network a healthy body, personal strength, mindful routines, or maybe fulfilling hobbies or fulfilling job or whatsoever. And if we take enough time to reflect on these resources, and not only to reflect but to put them into action, of our happiness resources in everyday life, we will quickly notice which of them have already helped us out of one crisis, or another in the past and how we can access and use them more easily in the future in upcoming times and as i already said um your mental well-being your mental health i only have one minute left let me two more minutes invest in your social relationships because as it turns out The most important resource at far are the people in our environment other people we are spending our precious lifetime with and an appreciative and friendly togetherness is indispensable for this so I have another play of work for you let's move especially now from illness I hope you can see that. From illness to wellness. From I to we. And I love this play of words. So invest in your family and friends. Invest in your social network. Invest in the people around you. And just take a moment, take time to send them a WhatsApp, to send them an email, to call them, to say how important they are in your life and how they strengthen your personal mental health. And one last little anecdote before I end my talk today. We practiced this before during our one minute, we did a little break together. Don forget to breathe And this is the most easiest super fast tip and trick I could give you and it even helps my three years old son when he having a big challenge with his overwhelming emotions or he finding himself in a difficult situation i just kneel down to him and whisper to him slow down and take deep breath and he follows me and concentrates and he inhales the fresh air and what happens he immediately calms down in a few seconds and it's wonderful to see that and it will help you to whether if you're three years old or 30 years old or 60 years old it doesn't matter we need to calm down so with this feeling of coming down taking a deep breath maybe smiling to yourself and to the people around you with this feeling i would like to thank you for your attention say a warm goodbye thank you for having me you can find more information on our website i will show you the link and if you have any further questions because it's a big topic i know there are many side effects if you have any further questions please feel free to email us afterwards thank you so much thank you very much um actually especially me i have a lot of questions but unfortunately time and thank you thank you for your words and i'm i'm sure that among the listeners there are a lot of people who just take something from you which will make them happier in the future and maybe even make the happier the other people around them. For that, thank you for speech and thank you for being here virtually and thank you the Nobelfest to that opportunity to meet with you and share your thoughts. Thank you. Thank you. Dr.Luganov, let's give a shout out to our next amazing speaker. Dr.Luganov, please, we're waiting for you. Hi everyone welcome it's an honor and privilege to be here today so let me tell you how we actually explore the planet we live in and other planets in solar and beyond solar system what we know about the planets and what we don't know about these planets and what we have learned recently because of amazing advanced computation based on quantum physics mechanics and and design material which is what I do crystallography okay let's do it from the very beginning so traveling deep into the center of the earth what kind of planets are there let's let's let's recap I mean solar planet and beyond well all planets are split into types there's these sort of the so-called stone based planets like earth for example or Venus or Mars and Mercury and they are also the so called giant planets there are two types of giants there is Jupiter and Saturn, that's one type there is Uranus and Neptune ice giants, that's the other type what do they consist of? earth type planets consist of the iron core and a silicate mantis basically it's like essentially it's a magnum silicate so it's like a coating like M&M's basically and a thin crust on top now Jupiter and Saturn basically it's a mix of hydrogen and oxygen and helium by the way hydrogen and helium by the way are the most common found elements in the world but Neptune and Uranus are mostly a mix of water, methane and ammonia. All these planets are under immense pressure. The depth, I mean extreme temperatures. For example, you know that the pressure in the center of Earth is almost about 4000 centigrade. Think about it. or if you look at the center of Jupiter or Saturn the temperatures are enormous and the pressure is much much higher and much greater there's also the so-called diamond type I mean there are planets that are carbon based but I'm not sure that's totally true needs to be verified but all available knowledge tells us that there are two basically, ok, three types of planets there's the earth type planets like mercury venus mars there's a jupiter type which is a mix of hydrogen and helium and ice based planets both inside the solar and outside the solar system and by the way we know more than 5 000 planets outside solar so-called exoplanets gas giants and whatnot so anyways let's talk about these gas giants or ice giants so what's so special about yeah and less than focus on earth now like I said Jupiter and Saturn are basically a mix of hydrogen and you know helium you know that hydrogen becomes metallic under high pressure but helium is not so helium stays on top hydrogen goes to the bottom right because pressure acts differently on these two gases that's the point and in jupiter you can clearly see it in saturn even more so and that actually produces a lot of energy heat that that energy becomes kinetic and then produced as heat and because of that jupiter and particularly saturn has so much luminosity you can see it from Earth. Neptune, by the way, you can see it from Earth. It actually produces two times more light than it receives. Imagine if you actually spend two times more than you receive. That means you have extra income. So Neptune has this extra source of heat that creates such luminosity. And 40 years ago scientists actually assumed something very amazing You know this is basically a mix of water and ammonia and they thought that perhaps methane under high pressure actually decomposes and produces carbon and pure and diamond and pure carbon and because diamond has higher pressure so it's crystallic yeah and the whole planet of Neptune is basically liquid by the way Jupiter is also liquid did you know that mostly so crystals of diamond are precipitating to the bottom right in a gaseous and liquidous environment the same with heat so it's basically a gravitational pull that becomes heat so that's what they used to say and that's how they explain the fact that Neptune is so shiny and you can see it with a Now, when we talk about those systems, essentially, uranium, uranium, sorry, and Neptune, so like I said, carbon, you know, oxygen, nitrogen, etc. So, it's like we can talk about the chemistry of the planet and the chemistry of the atmosphere. We know something about the satellites and the planet itself. What kind of molecules can you find there? Recently, with our students, we decided to create a method to predict stable molecules. But you see it here. It's a map. So, n is the number of atoms of hydrogen, carbon. And you see a tremendous number of stable hydrocarbons. and that's what you find in the atmosphere of these planets as well as their satellites. So the map actually explains why organic chemistry is so rich. I mean, look at how many compositions are there, look at how many molecules are there, look at how many varieties of molecules are there. So the point is that some of them are quite basic, like C13H9. Yeah, you can clearly see that that's supposed to be magnetic. Why? Because you see that number of electrons is uneven. Can hydrocarbons be magnetic? Weird, right? But if you look at the structure, it's a beautiful structure. Look at how simple, majestic and beautiful. It's almost like a graphene, right? Almost like it's cut with a knife. It's decorated with carbon, look. It's almost like a, even that they use it for, like it's a very human design, right? You can see it on the streets, for example. Oh, it turns out it was known for a long, long time ago. I mean, it actually goes back to 1960, by the way. And this molecule actually is well known in the atmosphere of such giants, giant planets. Now, speaking of hydrocarbons in the depth of the planet under pressure, for example, wood, this produced diamonds, which is a weird process of heat generation. Think about it. Neptune generates heat by billions of tons of diamonds precipitating in the gravitational field. And that produces heat. The question, will diamond be stable? We haven't considered. The answer is yes. So, I mean, regular carbons, hydrocarbons, will actually fall apart. And they produce diamonds as part of this process. Now you can see it here. So that's carbon and hydrogen, basic. But if you look at the more advanced... By the way, it took us a couple of years using a supercomputer. It's very difficult to compute. But the result is the same. So it's very unusual chemical bindings, very complex chemical bindings, but diamond will be there. The diamond is formed. So, the most probable explanation for this excessive heat that Neptune generates is the fact that a tremendous number of tons of diamonds precipitate under pressure and gravitational pull. So, like I said, some of these compounds are very, very unusual if you look at it. I mean, the structures are very bizarre. So, just a couple of words about the pressure because pressure has to do with all planets including Earth. I mean, you know that in the universe there are tremendous range of pressures. Some have hundreds of gigapascals. Like Mars, for example, 25 gigapascals maximum pressure. So Earth has 364 gigapascals. Like 5,000 gigapascals, depending on the planet. But these are just tremendous pressures. Because to create this kind of pressure, you need to take 200 African elephants and take the total weight and apply it to one square centimeter. So that's 100 gigapascals. 100 gigapascals is one million atmospheres. That's the pressure. So and that's the kind of pressures that we see. Now what happens with this kind of pressures? Well, classic chemistry doesn't work anymore. Камера, например, содиум не станет металлой, а станет транслусентной, не станет металличным кристаллом. Мы предвидели это, и мы экспериментировали это, мы видели это в видеописках. Это пример оранжевого, тинтого, транслусентного содиума, не металличного. И вы знаете, что оксиданты становятся суперкондукторами. Я имею в виду, что оксиданты не металл, но они используют миллион паскаловый давлений и становятся суперкондукторами. Фосфор и другие элементы становятся суперкондукторами. Вероятно! Важно, если вы производите десятки миллионов атмосферных давлений, даже в Советской Унион, мы были в отличном состоянии, но в Советском и русском фазе, который называется Львов-Шулер, и когда вы используете десятки миллионов паскалов давлений, The table of periodic elements doesn't work anymore. It just becomes even. Properties disappear. So that basically means that chemistry as we know it no longer exists. Because periodicity has to do with atoms, right? With SPDF, right? And they disappear. Instead, you get electronic gas. And that's not chemistry, that's physics. Камера у нас есть свои границы. Это то, что происходит, когда мы применяем давление, давление экстремальное, но мы должны знать и использовать это каждый раз, когда мы пытаемся узнать больше о Земле и других планетах. Что мы знаем о нем? Мы знаем что-то, мы знаем что в этом вулке, в глубоком вулке, было выделено в Советскую Унию 12 километров. Но 12 километров это ничего, Because you know that earth has more than 6,000 miles. It's like a prick on the surface of a big watermelon. And we can't reach deeper, right? Because it's too deep. We can sample some of these elements from 12 kilometers. But that's pretty much it. We can't drill further. There's only that much that we can drill. We can't go lower. Like, for example, some of the elements that are deeper in the crust. We don't have it. We can't reach there. What do we do? How do we do that? As scientists, of course, we need to look at our sensory perceptions. We have eyes, we have fingers, we have ears, we have smell, we have tongue, we have touch, we have chemical analysis, and, of course, we have a brain. That's pretty much it. So the point is that we can use most of these things well because we don hold this element in the hands It deep deep inside the earth but we can listen to it We can listen to the distribution of sound waves through the earth if for example there certain magnitude of Earthquake. Yeah, it creates shock waves and this waves the sound waves Penetrate different depth with different speed you can register it using a system a graphic instrument, which is well known, right? this is what people do by analyzing this data you can then calculate the density of rock and the change in density with depth and the speed of distribution I mean and this gives us a lot of information and that's how people for example have learned that the earth's core is metallic that outside there is a molten lava, but inside there is a hard shell, that there is actually a number of layers, and inside it's like a cabbage, basically it has layers and layers and layers, some of them are liquid, some of them are hard. We also know the composition of the solar system. We actually know, at first approximation, based on the meteor data, ok try to understand Yes g Yok So This is the composition of the earth from under the earthjob the actual mantis as well as the core of the earth that's difficult so we understand how pressure how with certain depth we understand the pressure at different depths but temperature that's the problem we don't know it exactly and by the way that was one of my phd results the picture on top is i took it from my phd work you see the distribution of average temperatures with depth from minimum to maximum and it's an amazing result think about it if you look at the bottom which is almost 3 000 kilometers deep so the contrast between cold and hot parts are is a delta of 2 000 degrees can you imagine that uh the mantis is cold under japan but it's hot under Iceland, if you take a thermometer and measured 2,000 degrees different at the same depth, underneath Japan and underneath Iceland. How is it possible? Why is there such a range? O.K., you can also calculate the conductivity of heat, heat conduction and we had of course to struggle a little bit and we developed our own method and it turns out that They are quite far apart. It's about 8 terawatts of heat that is transmitted from the core to the mantis. By the way, and this goes very, very well with other research. For example, here, different curves that show actually how much heat the earth receives from the deep core. And, etc., etc. So, anyways, and by the way, this picture has a very important element. The amount of heat that we receive from the core or is transmitted from different parts actually used to vary across history, I mean tremendously, by a factor of X. Now, processes that are happening on Earth can be very different from what used to happen in the very beginning of the planet. Different moving parts and very different in magnitude. And this is important to know. What is happening on Earth right now? Well, it is the so called tectonics basically. Earth's core, as you know, has tectonic plates, quite hard and they actually move. And they are moved by convection force. The mantis is the hard shell, but, and it moves slowly about one centimeter per year. And it actually flows, it flows. It's not settled, it flows. Hot goes up, cold goes down. And it basically fractures the earth's crust in certain places. And then put it back together. Depending on whether it's hot or cold. And that's what we know, aka volcano. And that's why we have mountains, and we have continental drift. We have volcanoes, we have earthquakes. ...and the tectonic plates collide, etc. And also, by the way, life itself. They say that life was actually born in relation to this convection force. And that's why we have magnetic field, by the way. We also know, I mean, first approximation, the mineralic composition. We know what kind of minerals and what depth in our planet. Мы знаем это. И сейчас дайте мне также поделиться несколько историй. Первый, это был недавно. Они недавно обнаружили новую минеральность, которая была раньше не знана. И вторая история о том, как теоретические люди, как я, предсказали новые кемоколы, которые могут изменить нашу percepción de то, что мы знаем. This layer is a muddy green color. It's called D double apostrophe. It's very uneven. It can be very thin or disappearing or can be very thick. It's like 300 kilometers. Imagine, it's like mountains inside. Inside, we have mountains inside the earth. Ур ез неликcountryе mithoe sparetime сангрэпв antwo Моя работа и японская работа ве санкции и почти одновременно мы описываем новое минерал Вы можете видеть формулу Я вам говорил, что мент из силиката так что, в результате это действительно имеет новое модификацию это создается только когда очень высокая давлением Pang fallen out and its a layered structure And a very unusual chemical properties and it turned out that this chemical properties actually explained all the anomalies that we've known across this D Arabic double or I upper part layer And the depends on temperature for example the temperature is very high it faces stable and this D layer becomes very thin or disappears but what the temperature is lower colder come from the eye become stabileized and the thickness goes up for example in the Japanese and the layer is thick and Iceland, very thin So the conclusion, its growing now as the Earth is chiling, is cooling So this D layers So the Earth structure is not

constant it's changing over time the conclusion here the basic conclusion here based on this picture is that small planets like mars and mercury this layer is impossible to have so it's different if in cross-section from the earth and on top of that if we know yeah uh what temperature affects stability of the layer We can calculate the difference in temperatures between extreme hot and extreme cold. The difference is 2000 degrees, which is exactly what we've discovered. We discovered it through a totally different method. Essentially, that's the mineral model of the Earth. So this new mineral that we've discovered, which is the lower level of the mentos. And this discovery was made in 2004. And basically many things that are happening right now. The fact that the Earth's mentos convection is speeding up. And because of that you're now seeing new life. Because life is based on those elements that are carried by those convection flows Like carbon, for example, is taken from the very depth of the earth to the surface Well, time will tell But right now I would like to talk about the second thing Which is how predicting new scientific elements can actually change our perception of what earth is going to be in the future helium was supposed to be chemically inert they used to say that helium doesn't you know couple with anything but we recently published a work and we experimentally showed that actually under pressure helium is actually not inert it actually creates good bounding with sodium for example you see here you have a real picture for this is this is a x-ray refraction so this was produced in our laboratory so it's all about pressure and then we also predicted and I'm sure that we will find an explanation and proof of other compounds not just helium so elements it's like you open the Pandora box showing that look helium is only inert under normal pressure but we predicted a whole bunch of new combinations that attached limb quite moderate pressure can new shapes. So they used to think that because helium is inert supposed to leave the core of the earth's mantis. But now we know that it can sit deep down inside the earth bound with other substances, elements. Now because of the pressure and it turns out that you know magnesium and Слиусиум-02, фор экзампл, depending on the pressure, магнисиум-оксид, фор экзампл. It's not that simple. Certain elements, from the classic standpoint, are quite impossible, but it is actually stable because of the pressure. Certain carbon-based compounds, though impossible to form under normal pressure, become very stable under extreme pressure. And finally, I would like to tell you about the origin of water on Earth. And it actually has to do with very, very exotic compounds. Have a look. Life is impossible without water. Would you agree? Yeah, I mean, Earth is mostly covered with water. It's a very wet planet. And we see it as basically, we give it as is. Yeah, but where does water come from? Let's go back to the very origins of Earth. It was a very hot planet. It was very hot, it was bombarded by asteroids. Think about it. And every collision creates tons of heat. An asteroid like this one, like a 10-15 kilometer asteroid hit the earth and destroyed dinosaurs. Can you imagine the kind of impact it produced? And then, during the first several million years of its origin, Earth has been hit by many big asteroids, one of them actually as big as planet Mars. Can you imagine that? So this Mars hit the planet called Deia, the planet of Deia. And it changed the rotation of the Earth. It actually took some of the Earth's element onto the orbit and actually evaporated a lot of the Earth's mentors. And that became the moon, actually. That's the theory that it was a big big planet asteroid that hit the earth and actually created the moon Which is a weird thing but it's actually accepted very well in the scientific community Yeah, I mean it's been around as long as I live So and still nobody has managed to actually prove any different So can you imagine the amount of heat produced when one planet hit the other When matter is molten and is evaporated think about it, we go down to 500, 600, 1000 kilometers deep. That's how big the impact was. And all the water that was stored there was completely evaporated. And that was something like 30 million years after the origin of Earth. And then 120 million later. So we see water, we see oceans and rivers. Where did they come from? not so long ago we evaporated all water and then it's back again where does it come from ha the point is that earth has not just been struck by traditional meteors like Mars as such but it was also hit by comets a comet is mostly water and maybe the water we drink comes from comet nope if you look at the isotopic composition it's very different in comet and on earth that means that this water that we drink comes from the depth that means that a certain compound at a certain depth well deeper than 1,000 kilometers used to bind water what kind of element and then for whatever reason it released it so if you keep it and keep it why did you release it yeah weird from the chemical standpoint why did this compound is you know the decouple and So, me and my apprentice actually predicted a new element. You can see it here. It's a very unusual element. I can't even interpret it because it's so complex. So, it can only survive and be stable under extreme pressure in excess of 2 million atmospheres. So it needs pressure and heat at the same time. For example, when you compress water containing mineral, it's like squeezing a lemon or orange. So water evaporates. But here, no. It's stable. You increase pressure, it is stable. It becomes even more stable. You increase temperature, it actually becomes even more stable, which is very unusual. So it is stabilized by heat and pressure, but only in excess of 2 million atmospheres. The center of the earth is close to 4 million atmospheres, so it seems like it's okay, but no. But no. Right now, if you look at the Earth's crust, there's no silicate. It's iron-based, but it wasn't that way all the time. The iron core was actually formed. They say that it goes back to 30 million years, which is the same time when the planet Deya hit the Earth. And Mars, by the way, is only one-tenth of Earth, by the way, for those who don't know. It's a smaller planet, much smaller planet. So 30 million years we have two parallel processes Earth has been hit by meteors and planets and whatnot big and small Even the planet hits the earth and then the earth's crust, yeah, all the way down to 1,000 kilometers. It's all waterless, molten, hot. But inside the earth, deep down, the core is growing, is being shaped. It is not yet set. And you have this hydrosilicate. So as the core increases, silicates that are less stable actually push outside to areas of smaller pressure and they fall apart. So as the earth is being hit by it, this area actually expands, the core expands, and hydrosilicate basically is breaking down, forming water. And that water precipitates to the surface through convection has been carried out to the surface and it took a hundred and twenty million give or take years I mean if you look at the average speed of convection so then basically a hundred and twenty million is more than enough for the for the water to reach surface so that's the hypothesis but as a hypothesis that it's open for debate it's open for discussion but I think it's a very This is an exciting hypothesis because you don't find this hydro-silicate right there. It's core, it's metallic core, it's done, that's it. It used to be there. So see, not just dinosaurs die, but also minerals die. It used to be there, not anymore. But in biology, you know that something that's dead actually sometimes is a stepping stone to future evolution. Same here, so this mineral is no more, but it was a stepping stone to something bigger. So basically lay down the path for future evolution and if you look at bigger planets it actually exists there right now because they have a different path okay so what am I trying to tell you at least what we know about the planet yeah about this mysterious layer D yeah and new exotic compounds and as new computational methods are new technologies enables to take a deep view into the composition of earth and solve mysteries and that's my team by the way great minds do not think alike thank you for your collaboration and for your time thank you for this amazing presentation thank you so much and as a matter of fact you you you you operate at a different frequency listening to you and it's like oh my god i'm so stupid in this big space and i'm just the dust of speck in the big universe you know my problems forget about it you know look at this you know giant things that are out there so i'm nothing against that so anyways so maybe our viewers our participants have questions you have a unique opportunity but i see a couple of hands right there get a mic and ask a question please introduce yourself where you're from and ask the question hello my name is idos i'm from i'm a local so i'm from astana local so it was a very interesting lecture thank you very much for I have two questions. So, crystallography, I mean, when did you start doing this crystallography? How long have you been doing this? And secondly, when will we be able to predict earthquakes? Great question, thank you. I started, I actually chose, I chose crystallography during my first year at the university. I dreamt of becoming a chemist. Then, when I was 11 years old, I decided to become a mineralogist, and I applied for the mineralogy department of Moscow State University. And then, during my first year, I thought that I need to be somewhere in the middle between mineralogy and pure chemistry. So, and that's crystallochem. I'm a cristallo chemist. So, speaking of predicting earthquakes, very difficult to do. Why? Because you need a lot of input data, and we don't have it. For example, data about, you know, about pressures, about different strength of rock in different parts, or you can solve it somehow through machine learning. By analyzing statistics, You can sort of predict the onset of new earthquakes. Big data and AI can help us. It's incredibly difficult, but imagine, just imagine, you take a piece of rock and you hit it with a hammer on a non-regular basis. Can you predict at what time and at what place will the rock break? Difficult, yeah? Same here. If earth is a rock, is a piece of rock, then how do you predict when is it going to break? But what I'm saying is that and because it is a worthy scientific goal, I'm sure this will be resolved one day. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. I see more hands out there. Okay, please pass the mic. Pass the mic, speed up guys, speed up, speed up. Thank you very much for this lecture. Because it was a lecture basically. It was really, really informative. I want to ask you about a methane hydrate weapon. When methane is released from the depth of the ocean, can this, for example, can tectonic plates can affect? Модерн, я не умею, но я не expert в оружие, но я не верю, что это так. Я не вижу, что это используется как оружие. Но когда вы выкидываете метан в воздух, метан уничтожает лыжки. Exactly, and they call it a weapon because it is assumed that when, you know, back in the day when earth was being built, I mean, the reason why dinosaurs died, etc., etc., because it's sort of a weapon. You can actually use it as a weapon by destroying ozone layer. Yeah, yeah, as a hypothesis, why not? It definitely has something to it. Yeah, so potentially, if you can challenge properly, then methane release can be used as a weapon. Yes, over here. Right here, sir. Yeah. So, my question to you is that you've experimentally proven, and yet you always talk about millions of atmospheres. I just don't get it. It's just practically. How can you create millions of atmospheres experimentally? In what laboratory can you create such pressures? Well, it's a good question, by the way. Thank you, I guess. So, there are lots of ways. I mean, there's high-pressure chemistry and physics. There is also, you know, we can create pressure through impact. When you have a sample and you hit it with a shell. And for a very, very brief time, like tens of millions of seconds, this actually experiences an extreme pressure. Billions of atmospheres of pressure. So this is how you do it in the laboratory. It's very short, but surprise, surprise, You need to be able to measure the properties of matter for this microseconds because it comes and goes And there's also statistics where you take a sample and you squeeze it between, for example, two diamonds because you know the diamond is very hard. And if you squeeze an element, and diamonds are very stable across multiple pressures, 2 diamond 5 миллион атмосфер, без давления, без ошибок, конечно, так что, нет, нет, diamond достаточно сильный, чтобы выдержать такие давления, ой, подождите, дайте мне объяснить, что такое давление, это давление, это сила разделена на квадрат, так что, в основном, такой тип давления, вы знаете, что давление, которое вы применяете, is applied to very small square space tiny, tiny, tiny and we're talking about like it's a let's say 30 microns so you see I can squeeze it with my finger but if you apply it to really tiny square space you can create enormous pressure it comes down to force by area surface area and that's how you get those millions of atmospheres ok, more questions, go ahead sir I came from Almaty, so let me be first because I'm a musician by the way and I'm also a teacher from Almaty and let me tell you that you are probably the best speaker today so let's talk about education so you are an exceptional scientist Look at the audience is basically in awe Look at how many hands go up Look at how many people want to ask you questions This is amazing So I see you're sort of playing a humble guy But if I were a student and I saw you on stage I'd be blown away Instead of being a teacher of music I'd become a teacher of chemistry Thank you for this amazing lecture Because this is so inspirational If I was a student I would definitely follow your path And I will show the copy of this video To my students Because you are an amazing example Of what teaching should be By the way, I'll be here today Here, yes, tomorrow And I will talk about teaching, by the way Because they wanted to actually Explain how I teach students So I will do that tomorrow, by the way Thank you, and this is an amazing feedback за органайзинг тима Нобел Фассел и следующий вопрос Здравствуйте Артем Мой имя Аружан и мой вопрос к вам Вы знакомы с книгой Жюль Верн? Вы имеете в виду его книги? Да да да Вы читали его книги? Я имею в виду путешествие в центр земли это было написано 160 лет назад Я спрашиваю, вы читали книгу? они похожи на Та, ух, не, не, не, конечно нет, конечно нет. Жюл Верн был прекрасным писателем, он был человеком в культуре и он был очень креативным. Но с точки зрения сферы сферы, я имею в виду, давай, ты читаешь его книги не потому что ты хочешь быть científic, это развлечение. И только частично, частично есть образование, но это основная, если ты действительно хочешь быть científic, то читай Стивена Хокинга. ok, so what about the fauna? deep down, is there any fauna? I don't know what you mean by fauna, but you mean living organisms. They survive all the way to like 15 kilometers down sometimes more there are sea creatures on the depth of Mariana and if you look at the lowest depth of the ocean Но, когда мы поднимаем, жизнь невозможно, потому что жарко. Хорошо, спасибо. Следующий вопрос. Конечно, продолжайте. Меня зовут Куат, я из Астаны. Это очень хорошо тебя услышать. Ты объяснил модель на Земле, основан на силиконе. Я думаю, что ты familiar с идеей гидридов на Земле. И если так, то что ты думаешь об этом? You probably know that several weeks ago in Mali, at a depth of 150 meters, they started producing pure hydrogen, which is 96% pure hydrogen. So what is the potential for this kind of extraction? And how big can this extraction be? Because we're producing it using electrolysis and pyrolysis. And they actually do it without... Well, I didn't know about Mali. I didn't know about Mali. This is amazing. But all sorts of gases come out of Earth. It's mostly not hydrogen.ати кленkmей большинства собороднен архиплост и осиби е kgHe2 Эти корыльdec Early Cold Pharma,year I know lo thats things о б个 пос»,ог lot го самое pi니н н Wagner He said,that there was Wit Это также факт. Но, врач, мистер Ларин, говорит, что кроме металла, корпус Земли имеет много гидрогена. И почти никто не верит в это. there's no reason to believe that, but yesterday as I was flying to Astana, and unfortunately I missed it, one Russian scientist was doing the presentation, and he came to a conclusion that actually supports this hydride core, but I used to spend a lot of time studying the core, and from what I know, it's not true. Я очень нечистый, я научный, поэтому я почти сказал «короче». Потому что мы ищем правду, где-либо, где-либо, где-либо находится правда. Мы не знаем, где находится правда, но, в основном, в современном данном, может быть очень маленький контент хидроза, может быть 1-2% как в проценте, в том числе. И это важно, но это не важно. И это может быть важно, но не 30% из Курсового Корпуса, потому что это основно металлическое. Спасибо. Ответили на Ваш вопрос. Хорошо, спасибо большое. Следующая вопрос. И пожалуйста, подстаньте, потому что мы можем Вас видеть. Hello, my question is, you said that laws of chemistry don't work when you apply millions of pounds of pressure, right? When the temperature is extreme, when the pressure is extreme, but I think 20 years ago, they proved that the reservoir model doesn't work either. and then the whole chemistry need to be revamped completely that the whole chemistry as a science is obsolete so basically if chemistry is facing such existential problems that means that certain things are so difficult to explain then what is the future of chemistry? I mean will it even survive as we know it? well it's a great question You know there nothing you know nothing you know unusual about what I said Look the laws of chemistry were formed let be honest about it not even the laws I mean maybe the foundations of chemistry right I mean chemical formulas based on charges, etc., etc., certain notions about that the sodium is a metal, etc., etc., yadda, yadda, yadda, etc. All these generalizations that we have in chemistry, as we know it, were actually made based on empirical studies at normal conditions. Normal conditions, I mean, it works in normal conditions. But, as you know, in science, when you change conditions, then you should expect different outcome, and rightfully so. When physics actually create Newton mechanics, they were based on trials and errors. They were operating in regular speeds and regular masses. But it doesn't work when you apply different speeds and different masses. The laws are different. There's quantum mechanics, which is completely different. And there's the theory of relativity, which is more general and it's actually more convex. Newton mechanics is only part of it. So I think it's something like that. So there are layers to this game. So when you go outside your typical area, you're not necessarily violating fundamentals of chemistry, but you're breaking the traditional perception of chemistry, such as helium is inert and cannot create, you know, bonds. что содиумы, например, металл, и так далее, и так далее. Я имею в виду, что это только существует в специфическом фреймворке, но логики физики есть, но знания эмпириозные и нашая интуиция не работают. И это хорошо, это так, как должно быть, потому что вы применяете разные термины и условия к этому. Хорошо, хорошо, у меня есть еще один вопрос. Right there, yeah, on the right. I'm Olga, I'm from Amursk. I'm actually a cultural anthropologist, I'm not a physicist, but based on the information that you've just said, where do you see the future of environmental problems of like water on earth? Because as you know, year upon year, and they keep discussing, is the fact that the caps are melting, that we're running in a shortage of drinking water, etc., etc., etc. And secondly, because of Sheldon Cooper, we're all big, big fans of astrophysics and physics. So, the question I have for you, what are your impressions using the telescope? и табёр врага мое ей Could we colonize them? c А far beyond my area of expertise by the way but I love logics I'm a logical man to me that's the cornerstone so and your two questions actually contradict each other let me explain why on the one hand you pointing at the thing that we as humankind can't help clear purifying water if that's the problem that you face you can't even take care of your own planet I mean what are you What are you going to do outside? I mean, take care of Earth before you colonize other planets. Yeah? How about that? So one day maybe we'll be ready. But other planets? What planets? What exactly I would talk about? What planets? You say colonize planets. Jupiter? Are you going to colonize Jupiter? Yeah. I want to see you do it. By the way, it's very cold. On the surface it's very hot inside. Mars? Very cold. I mean, with very weak magnetic field. Mars, you will die there because you don't have any protection from x-ray and stuff like that. And it's cold, there's no oxygen. I mean, come on, yeah you can sort of produce oxygen, but you need so much energy to produce. Venus! What about Venus? A very hot planet. And gases are very poisonous. But, you know, maybe going far beyond the solar system, fly there, there but it's a long flight yeah especially if you use commercial airlines so what are you going to take with you like it's a rocket ship you know how much can you take with you I mean it's it's not a trivial question speaking of purifying water that's doable but it costs money it costs money and maybe you've been to India it's a catastrophe they have huge shortage of drinking water yes you cannot drink tap water because you can die from infection but can we solve it yes but they're not doing it why as a matter of fact I mean there was a futurologist that said was that 21st century is the century of global conflicts and ten years ago I mean people just called BS on that where if you chose it there will be terrible wars and 21st century World War 3 Now Lo and behold See what happens And one of the reasons Why people fight Is water For example And it's going to be water Surprise, surprise Great Maybe we have people from other cities And they have questions Sure You have an opportunity to ask questions Can I ask you one question? I'm right there I'm here Yeah, yeah, yeah Right there Hello So, thank you for an amazing presentation, Artyom. And it's a typical question from a non-scientist. I mean, I'm not a scientist, I'm not a chemist, I'm not a physicist. I'm a... Well, physics gives us very specific achievements. Like, for example, video camera, smartphone. iPhone Rocket Building SpaceX Tesla You can see it, you can touch it, you can buy it. But what about chemistry? What has chemistry produced for everyday use? Водопилы, смартфоны, айфоны. Но что касается химии? Какой продукт химии люди используют на регулярном уровне? Какие одежды вы используете? Какие одежды вы используете? Да, частично из пластика, да, это химия. Но я думаю что когда вы пьете воду, кстати, эта вода идет за пищевую, химическую пищевую. Водопилы идут за цепочки. Цепочки, Space ships are rocket ships into space. Or when Russians launch a spaceship. So it's basically a chemical engine. By the way, it's chemistry. Or rocket firing is chemistry. And by the way, we have our... We actually create rocket fuel, by the way, in my laboratory. It's a chemical fuel. It's an oxidation. Basically, so without chemistry, We're going to go back to Stone Age. No, no, no. Even not Iron Desk.

Forget about Bronze Age Stone Age, we'll be back to Stone Age Right there, express train to Stone Age Without chemistry Wow, pretty amazing So I guess the reason why people are asking these questions They want to know how science can change our everyday lives Because everybody is looking to wonders And this is day one So we have two more days to go So thank you, thank you sir for this amazing presentation really really inspiring and i hope that we'll see you tomorrow and we'll continue on a very very important topic yeah so thank you so and we're looking forward to meeting you tomorrow thank you that's uh so ladies and gentlemen and with that the offline part is done and we continue with our online broadcast and we'll have kirk byrne number one expert in big data Субтитры сделал DimaTorzok ҚАЗАТАР Супер кэстюмін бриу армандайма. Онын... Хани, хани, хани! Дивен сөздері қанатты сөздгай налама. Оларга бұнын ешкай сымаңыз даймез. Минау сызге. Оларга әлемді сәлді бұлса жыгсарту маңызда. Мэне осында адамдарга жусан гирик. Жусан. Косымша сеншин. Малкандик тирсеншин. Сделай перерыв между занятиями с Фанта. Проведи эксперимент и развлекайся весь перерыв. Вот формула веселья. Фанта плюс перекусы. Ваши игры с друзьями войдут в историю. Математика перерыва проста. Получай удовольствие от фанта и перекусов. Давай, уже пора передохнуть. Перекуси с фанта. Перекуси с фанта между занятиями. Повеселись, повтори. Им не важно, снимут про них фильм или нет. Станут ли они героями книг или хотя бы комиксов. Мечтает ли кто-то про его суперкостюм? И с какой вероятностью его станет крылатой фразой? Им не важно. Им важно делать мир немного лучше. Вот для кого нужен ЖОСАН. ЖОСАН. Приложение для тебя. Возможности для тебя. Сакенси Фоллин Казакаро Техникул Юниверсити, the general partner of this event, is hosting this year's festival. For 65 years of its activity, KATU has trained more than 70,000 specialists, successfully working in all major sectors of the agrotechnical sphere. Among the ranks of our graduates are deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of leading enterprises, nationally known public figures, and athletes. Today, our university is one of the leaders of the National Higher Education on the National Rating of the Demand for Higher Education Institutions of Kazakhstan. from the IAAR on the quality of educational programs. And also, KATU is the base university for digitalization of agricultural production in Kazakhstan. Our partners include more than 160 world-renowned leading research universities and research centers. Among them are the University of California at Davis, which is the second highest institution in the world of the agricultural industry, AgriParisTech University in Europe, and many others. Today, CATU has started a dual diploma education in three specialties jointly with the University of Milan in Italy, which gives our graduates the opportunity to receive diplomas from two countries. Our university offers the opportunity to study at bachelor's, master's and doctorate's. Currently, the number of students exceeds 12,000, of whom 70% are studying under the state grants. There is a full opportunity to study in the military department. All necessary conditions are created for them to be qualified specialists. The university aims for a seamless experience in any format of education. For students, there is a printing office and a library equipped with an electronic system that has more than 1.5 million book collections. One of the large multidisciplinary education institutions of Kazakhstan with a deep history is Auezov University. That is, here students and undergraduates acquire practical working skills. In other words, this is a mini-copy of a large production and diary plant. Within the framework of the program of scholarship academic mobility and double degree education, the university cooperates with more than 170 foreign universities. 150 студента 1 годыalsы projections for academic mobility одыц IGril в мире трясти на тотариг силам ale в тодорочки указ годыц Ажúнин з а узначнининин Аналитик por아 blobkhik реги� Shirin tôлине Воияльтأن Cambridge il mar The IT center provides consulting to teachers of schools in Shymkent on robotics, provides material resources to students in the laboratory of robotics and mechatronics at the laboratory of mathematical and 3D modeling and provides material resources of the IT center to students and teachers of the OASF University. In Student Design Bureau, students and teachers prepare scientific projects for participation in regional, national and international competitions. Students of clubs and Student Design Bureau develop robotics systems for participation in competitions and competitions in robotics. The material and technical base of the university consists of 10 educational buildings of a modern standard, 6 student dormitories and 2 sports complexes. For the comprehensive development of students, more than 30 public, political and cultural organizations function. University of the United States of America has more than 27,000 students and invites you to take your best. F can Dedicated to my android e wonderful...... I would like to welcome you to the 5th Nobel Fest. Today we have two speakers from worldwide top influencers. And first one is Kik Bon, the top big data worldwide influencer, machine learning and artificial intelligence influencer, who has participated at the NASA projects for nearly 20 years and has also worked on the Hubble telescope. So the second one we have Christopher Hopper who is a co-founder and the CEO of the Aurora Solar, who works in the solar panels, the sustainable energy, and prior to that co-founded the charitable organizations in the developing countries. So welcome. Кик, вы хотите представиться немного? I was a professor of astrophysics but I taught data science. And after doing that for 12 years, I became a consultant for a major consulting management consulting organization where I was an executive advisor and I was helping large businesses and large government agencies again just do discovery from data build models from data to understand their data and now I'm independent and I do a lot of freelance writing and content creation and training and mentoring and speaking opportunities like this so I'm really pleased to be here today with you and in my spare time I am the part-time chief science officer of an AI startup called Dataprime and so that's what I do part of the time and while I'm not doing things like this. It's great to be here today. Thank you so much we're really glad to have you here today. Would you like for me to start? Yes please. My share screen is not working. Tenemos stapos So hopefully you can see my screen now and we can begin. Is that working? Just want to confirm, can you see my screen? Which says the future of innovation? The convergence of emerging technologies. So that's what I'm going to talk about today. It's all about innovation to create new business value, to create new opportunities for ourselves and for the next generation. And so it's about everybody. It's about those who are in the workforce now and who will be in the workforce, those who are in traditional businesses and those who are creating new businesses. So it's really about all these different emerging technologies and seeing how they intersect and come together to create new opportunities that we never thought of before. So that's what I'm going to be talking about today and just a little picture of what this landscape looks like. So this is one example of a chart representing the emerging digital technology trends. So whether we call this emerging tech or digitalization or exactly what we call it, it's really just about these digital technologies all over the place, really changing the way we think about business. You can't read this chart, obviously. It has too many words on it. Really, what I like to say, this is what really digital disruption looks like. It's not just digital transformation. It's digital disruption. It's really disrupting and changing traditional businesses. Healthcare, finance, security, sports, art, entertainment. Everything is being changed in some way by all these different digital technologies. ndo mesta la disrupcionizacion de los negocios tradicionales, pero la disrupcionizacion es lo que definimos como negocios, ya que ahora, mucha gente puede crear su propio negocio, y crea su propio valor como individuo en este mundo, es muy increíble. Vamos a pasar por algunas de estas cosas en el tiempo que tenemos hoy, obviamente no tenemos suficiente tiempo para cubrir todo esto, pero vamos a ver estas cosas y a entender que lo que realmente está pasando There are many different innovations and applications that are made possible from data, but not just data itself, but doing something with data. And so artificial intelligence is an example where we have used our mathematics, which we call machine learning, to find patterns in data. And when we learn those patterns, they can tell us things about what we're working in, whether it's finance or healthcare or whatever it happens to be. So we can build predictive models to predict what's happening. We can use these things to understand what's happening in our environment or in our world. And so we got natural language understanding and image understanding and machine vision. But also we can do what's called decision support or prescriptive analytics. That is knowing how to make a better, a more optimal outcome. So predictive analytics is predicting what will happen. But if you don't like what will happen, what can you do to change it? Well, that's called prescriptive analytics. So prescriptive analytics focuses on which data sources give you information and insight as to how you can change what an outcome will be. In other words, how can you change the future? That's really what it's about, changing the future. And I guess that's what really innovation is about. So these applications of AI are everywhere. But I'd like to start by just saying, even though we use the word artificial intelligence as part of AI, there is really nothing artificial about it. It's really about accelerating the work that we do, amplifying the work of individuals. It's assisting us in augmenting the individual. There's been studies that say that with automation and AI across the world, the World Economic Forum estimated that 75 million jobs, 75 million jobs will be lost to automation and artificial intelligence. intelligence now people think oh my gosh that's awful well the very next sentence in that report says but 133 million new jobs will be created new jobs that we've never thought of before so the net effect is there's going to be 58 million new new positions we need to fill with people 75 million are displaced but 133 million new types of jobs and where are those extra people going to come from? Well, we need to train the next generation to be prepared for these things. And so this is called an industrial revolution. With every industrial revolution, there's a change in the type of work we do because 200 something years ago more than 90 percent of the in the world were probably farmers or or in some form of agricultural or natural sort of application like that not a technology job but working the earth And obviously things change when we introduce steam power electric power computer power and now data power. So this is the fourth industrial revolution which is powered by data and it's really Amplifying and augmenting and this accelerating the things individuals can do in the world So this is what AI is really about nothing artificial about it And so what do I mean by that explicitly well explicitly outcomes are real? Okay there again, they're not artificial outcomes They're real outcomes image understanding language understanding and even context understanding are part of the outputs of ai the value that we get from ai it's it's driven by the insights we get from data so let's go through each of those a little bit if as we move forward here to understand what do i mean by these three things but keep in mind the thing that's right there at the bottom of the page contextual intelligence is key because contextual intelligence is what that third item is context understanding because what that does it enables us to make the next best decision and the next best action in a particular situation and every organization every business every individual wants to do this you want to make the best decision take the best action that's the prescriptive analytic part it's not just pre looking at the data see what is predicted to come next but to take the context of the situation and says in this environment in this context what is the next best thing i can do that's contextual intelligence so that's truly bringing data to action okay bringing data to action that's the real value of ai so image understanding examples for we've seen these all over the place we see them every day probably so automatic uh image and video captioning is one very interesting one where we can take images or videos and we can automatically label what's in them but not just label them for fun but actually to curate that is we can actually create a searchable database For example, if your business collects a lot of video or images, how do you find something in a huge collection like that? Well, the AI can tag it and say, so you can do a search to find the video that has the specific thing you're looking for. So that's a video and image captioning, but also image understanding applies to autonomous vehicles, self-driving vehicles. It needs to understand what's in its environment in order to operate safely. But there's other things like facial recognition. For example, when I pick up my smartphone, when I pick up my phone, I do not need to type in a password. It recognizes my face. So it's using what's called facial biometrics. My face is my password, right? My face unlocks my phone. So facial recognition has many applications and something as simple and personal as my phone, but also in security and healthcare and many other applications. So image understanding is one of the three top general use cases of AI. The second general use case is language understanding. Okay, so that can be voice understanding or text, written text understanding. So from understanding to generation, that is, not only can I ask a question and understands what I'm asking, but also can generate an answer in text, whether I'm talking on a conversational chat bot, which we call conversational AI, conversational ai is where the ai understands what i'm asking and it can generate an answer with a human voice okay so with natural language understanding and generation but also sentiment detection and sentiment analysis which is a very important thing in social networks to understand people's sentiment businesses use sentiment analysis all the time to understand do their customers like their product is there a problem with their product what are people saying about their products so so everybody in the business is should be doing some form of sentiment detection and analysis and so once you do this you could actually create searchable databases why do i say that well most of the data in the world the overwhelming majority of data in the world does not come in databases it comes in unstructured form it can be documents we already talked about images right you can have documents you can have presentations like the one you're seeing right now pdf files social media posts books all these things are unstructured how do you search for something in there well we talked about that with images we can tag the image but we can also tag content and documents so we can model what are the topics being discussed we can cluster them classify them we can identify the emergence of new topics we can rec identify changes in the topic for example this is very powerful in news on social media tracking how the topics of discussion change and drift with time so then we can summarize and tag these unstructured documents and make them searchable but it's not just the topics but also the things that are mentioned in the document entity identification a person a place a thing identify that thing and tag it so you know this document is talking about this person or this product or this particular event and so we can and we can tag things that is entities within documents that's language understanding to recognize that this word in in this document that is not just a word it's describing a thing a person a place a product an event and then we also have numerical quantity extraction that is actually going to unstructured documents like word documents spreadsheets pdf files books and extract numbers and put those numbers into a searchable database where you can do numerical analysis for material that was actually in printed form and now it's in a database where you can do quantitative analysis. So all these things are possible because the AI can understand all these different aspects of natural language. And then the third one, the third sort of general category of what AI is doing, and again these are the general categories that basically cover pretty much everything AI is doing. We have image understanding, language understanding, but the most important one is contextual understanding, that is contextual intelligence. So what is context? Well, it's really other data that occurs at the same time or location as the thing you're observing. Okay, that context, what's happening in this environment at this time at this place. But as long as we're talking about time and place, those are just specific physical dimensions. But our data lives in data parameter space. It's not just time and location. For example, if you're buying products in an online store, there's a product space. Okay, and there's also, for example, a customer space that is a customer that likes particular types of products and services like sports or entertainment or food items or whatever it happens to be. So there's a data parameter space, which is just another dimension. Okay, so time and location, just think of that as just part of the hyperspace of your data. So what else is occurring in this data parameter space near my observed event or behavior? And we already have plenty of examples of this. If you're familiar with the recommendation engine, a recommender engine, like people go to an online store, they say people who bought this product also liked this product. Or people who rented this particular movie like this other movie. So it's not about time and space. It doesn't matter when you like that movie or when you bought that book. It's the fact that you bought the same book that I'm looking at. It has nothing to do with time and space. It could be at a completely different time and location. It's location and data parameter space. That's contextual understanding. That context is extremely important. In fact, probably the most important of the three that I've mentioned here. Because that's how humans make best decisions and best actions. Just for example, think of an autonomous vehicle. Autonomous vehicle, a self-driving car, has a camera in the front. nd if that's all it had, that's not very safe because there might be children playing on the side of the street. There might be some activity on the side of the road or behind you that you need to be aware of. You need to be aware of what in the environment even though it not right directly in front of you So that context understanding And having that context again other data that occurs at the same time and location and data parameter space as what you looking at that contextual intelligence and that required for safety and self driving vehicles It also invaluable for safety and your business and in your personal life when you making the best time to make the best decisions So what powers all this data, data, data, data. I love data. I've worked with data my entire life, first as an astrophysicist doing analysis of data. Then my many years at NASA where I was still doing astrophysics, but I was primarily supporting data systems for large space telescopes. And so this data analysis and data management that I was doing ultimately led me to data science, analytics, machine learning, and now AI. AI absolute smallest data nugget that gives you the most important insight you need right now. But you don't know what that is until you actually do the search, do the analysis, apply the pattern recognition, the pattern detection from machine learning, apply the AI to have to go through all the data to find the thing that is the most informative insight to take the next best action. So oftentimes that's actually small data, but you have these many diverse data sources and sometimes very large and diverse data sources from which you You have to get that insight. So you need the additional insight from these other sources to get that context understanding. So AI is the power source for all these things. And not only is it the power source for just the joy of doing machine learning if you do that, or the joy of doing data science if you do that, and I get a lot of joy out of that. I love working with data to find patterns and insights and to help people make decisions and do better in their jobs or in their business or in their market or whatever they're doing. But it's also creating new opportunities. Okay, these new emerging technologies that we talked about earlier, when we saw that chart of all these emerging technologies, this is just another way of looking at an expanding frontier of emerging technologies. And I'm not going to read through this list, but we are going to talk about some of the things on this list. What I'd like to say is these are all innovations by themselves but they're also inspiring innovations and new products new services new businesses new opportunities so these innovations are inspired by data they're enabled by data and they're powered by data and by that i mean the data shows you something and you can use that data to power some new innovation or some new product or new service so what it can be doing actually is creating value and jobs from data so think about data is really the ultimate power source for all this innovation all these emerging technologies and all the digitalization that we've been talking about so ai in some sense is driving the forward edge of that innovation frontier it's really what's driving it forward because it enables us to accelerate and amplify and augment our work with data so ai is not just augmenting accelerating self-driving vehicles, it's augmenting and accelerating and amplifying our access and interpretation and insights discovery from data. So AI itself is used to improve AI. So that's kind of interesting, kind of a circular thing there. It's recursive and that AI is boosted by the AI itself when it can go through the data faster, more efficiently and effectively to find the insight to drive it forward. So let's talk about a few of the things in this long list which I did not read to you. So we don't have time today for a lot of reading here. So I will go through AI, of course, describe what that is, some of these converging intelligent edge applications I call. And you'll see what I mean by that. By converging, that means many of these different technologies work with other ones. They don't work in isolation necessarily, but they actually work in combination with other technologies. I call it the intelligent edge because really the point is you don't want to necessarily every time, not necessarily, every time you collect data, send it back to a storage device like a cloud storage platform and then analyze it sometime in the future and then say, oh yeah, we should do this. Well, that doesn't work with a self-driving vehicle, an autonomous vehicle. You need to make the decision right there at the point of data collection. You don't have time to send the data back to a cloud storage provider, do some analysis and come back later and say, oh, you really should stop the car because there's some child running in front of you. You need to make that decision instantaneously. The vehicle must make that decision instantaneously. And so the same thing if someone's shopping in an e-commerce store, you're going to lose that customer if you make your recommendation 15 minutes after they leave it. It has to be right there at that moment. So that's called an edge application at the moment of data collection, at the point of data collection. You make an intelligent decision, you make an intelligent choice, you get some intelligent insight. So that's what I mean by intelligent application. So we have AI, robotics, drones, autonomous vehicles, these immersive realities, whether it's metaverse or augmented reality or virtual reality. And then we get to the Internet of Things and the Internet, the industrial Internet of Things, which is what's powering this industry, fourth industrial revolution, which we call industry 4.0. And within that environment, we can build digital twins, which is a digital copy of the thing that you're modeling. So if you're modeling a customer, or you're modeling a wind farm, or you're modeling a spaceship, or you're modeling a manufacturing plant, or you're modeling just some simple health device, you can build a digital twin and see how that digital representation of the real thing responds to different conditions, to different risk conditions, to different inputs, to different stresses, before you put the real thing into the real-world environment. So you can build a digital twin of that. But not only can you do it to build and advance the digital twin, but also the digital twin can run in parallel. So let's say you're running a wind farm, and if one of the devices in the wind farm fails, you can actually collect the data from that device and replay it Almost like a recording you can you can replay what happened on that windmill and your digital twin of the wind So you can actually play it forward and play it backwards and find the conditions that cause the problem Or what you can do to improve efficiency or improve to not have the problem again in the future So I like to say that IOT Internet of Things and the industrial IOT are really the sources of really this other data About your data So this contextual intelligence that I call the other data about your data context I would say the Internet of Things you'll see at the end I like to call this the Internet of Context because all these sensors replacing in the world gives us this Insight and context about the main thing we're working on so you might be working on something in a manufacturing plant But you need to know what is the temperature in this plant? How long has this machine been operating? Maybe it's been operating too long and it needs to be Taken out of service and maintain some kind of maintenance So that comes from other data in the environment, not just the machine itself. And then ultimately 5G, which is this high-speed network, which is moving, helping us move all of this data around. So that really is an important part of the edge application. It's when you do need to send the data somewhere else to improve that insight discovery, then you have the fast network that empowers that and enables it. So all these things are powered by data, informed by data, created value from data. That's our innovation from data which we're talking about today. So AI of course is data informing and initiating actions. So these are applications. AI is the application of the mathematical models that we build through data science. So the mathematics is called machine learning, the process of finding

The optimal model, the most accurate model, the one with the lowest error and the most accuracy, that process is called data science. It's a scientific process. And just keep one thing in mind, the two most important things in data science, the two most important things in data science are the data and the science. The data is the objective reality, the source of knowledge and insight, and science is the scientific process by which we test and validate that our models are meaningful. So what kind of models are we talking about here? Well, here's some examples. For example, automatic postal code readers. Okay, so if your postal system is like our postal system, there's hundreds of millions, if not billions of pieces of mail and packages and things that go through the system every single day. and there's a postal code written on those letters and envelopes and packages and the machine can detect those images and understand which ones they are in order to route the package or the letter to the right destination. Now you might think digit detection is something different than the other things I talked about, but actually it's an example of, guess what, image understanding. You may not think of it as an image, but it is an image. When a letter comes through and it scans it, it actually, from the scanner's perspective, it's an image of some kind of character or something written or typed on this package. and then it has to discern what part of that image is the actual postal code. So there's some image understanding there, and then once it gets to those digits and says here's where the postal code is, it has to determine is this particular shape a particular number, and that's digit detection is computer vision. Okay, so that's an image understanding problem. We have many other examples in our life, for example, email spam detection, disease detection, medical diagnostics, location detections. Number five, here we have the chatbots, conversational AI, the online product recommendations, we have fraud alerts and anomaly detection. So many, many, many, many applications in our world of AI. So think of robotics and nothing more than a device that moves and reacts to data from sensors. okay it's reacting to sensory input okay so robotics is definitely an actionable ai it's actually moving in some way or reacting to sensory input in some way in an environment okay whether it's automated manufacturing or these devices that can clean your house automatically called the rumba uh whether it's like prosthetics like like a robotic arm to help someone who has maybe lost an arm or a robotic leg or something of this sort even in warehousing and logistics you know just keeping track of supply chain and what's in the warehouse and to move things around that need to be moved around and even autonomous exploration and of course for me as a scientist a space scientist I love the deep space exploration the applications of AI because you can't really like steer a spaceship that's you know you know five light hours away like when you're at when the spaceship's at Pluto it takes five hours to send the signal there and five hours to hear back You can't really like be driving something where the reaction time is 10 hours. Okay, so deep space or also deep sea, remote environments, or even dangerous environments, you can send a robot and do some exploration. So these are all using data at the edge. Okay, the sensors are collecting the data. And in that moment, at that place, at that time, that is at the moment of data collection, at the edge, actions and reactions are taken. That's edge intelligence, robotics. Then there's drones. What is drone? A drone is essentially nothing more than a flying robot. Now, not always. Sometimes a drone has a pre-scheduled flight plan. Okay, it's controlled automatically through software and it's not autonomous. But many times it is autonomous. That is, it has edge centers. For example, sometimes a drone is sent into a dangerous situation. For example, a natural disaster like a fire or a flood or even, you know, some other kind of disaster situation where you may not want to fly a human. over the scene but you can easily fly a drone over the scene and specifically for example something like a flood situation you want to identify have cameras on the drone to identify where to to look and to identify for example perhaps people who who need rescuing you know people who are in peril and they are in some danger in some danger who need rescue same thing with sort of firing drones over over fire situations or even over construction projects very large construction projects are now using drones to identify the progress of this construction project for example large buildings or or smart cities or large highways or you know any kind of large construction project the drone can oversee and identify places where things are moving at the right pace or maybe falling behind and even identify risky or safety incidents where things are maybe not going as safely as possible so a lot of applications of these flying robots and again they really are autonomous that is controlled by the sensors that they're flying with then it clearly that's an edge intelligence system that is it's responding in the moment the data is collecting at the edge at that time at that location so an autonomous vehicle we've talked about quite a lot and this it's just it's another example another very specific example of some of the other things we've already talked about uh that is it's in a sense it's a robot it's a self-driving intelligence system it's informed by data that comes from many different edge sensors like we said earlier it's not just the camera in front of the car it needs contextual intelligence so it actually has radar to understand well what if i have a car in front of me it doesn't mean i need to stop if i'm a self-driving car detects a car in front of it it doesn't necessarily need to stop because that car might just be driving in front of you right it's driving at the same speed as you and it's in front of you there's no danger you're just following behind a car that's already moving but if that car suddenly stops then the range that is the distance between you and that car is suddenly decelerating decreasing rapidly that's what the radar and the laser radar called lidar gives that information so that all this contextual information comes from many different sensors and again it's an edge intelligent system because it has to make the decision and take the actions at the moment of data collection and so machine learning computer vision image understanding even some language understanding because it really if it sees a traffic sign it has to be able to understand the traffic sign so the first thing is just image understanding it is a traffic sign it has words on it and then it identifies the where the words are and and it does like the like the digit detection and the postal code reader it identifies the characters the word that make the word and once it understands the characters it can build the word and then it has to understand what does the word mean does the word mean stop does it mean danger does it mean turn right turn left what does it mean so we have image understanding and language understanding and laser ranging so you have many different aspects of ai all happening at the same time which is why autonomous vehicles is like the poster child i mean it's like the the real convergence and congruence of many different ai applications and technologies and techniques and applications all in one system called an autonomous vehicle Then we get to some things that can be either fun or actually beneficial in commerce or beneficial in sort of real world security and serious applications. Okay, so augmented reality is one of those. So what is augmented reality? Well, it's a technology that superimposes that it overlays a computer generated image of something on top of your real world view. Okay, so it's not putting you into augmented reality. It's not putting you into a virtual world. You're still in your real world, but you have this augmented information. For example, some of the images here, you see on the bottom left, someone's holding their phone up. They go into a store. They can find out where the special price items are today. So they're still looking at their store, but they have this overlay of information that's pointing out specific locations. And maybe they want to find a specific product, and this can help. In the middle image at the bottom you have a disaster response situation for example a flood situation and people are using their phone to tap into a database which identifies where there down electrical power lines could be very dangerous to going through the flood situation if there's danger if there's down power lines electrical power lines in the water or something or even where's the location of people who need rescuing so you don't want to be in a virtual world you want to be in the real world obviously but you need this additional information that points the way and that can be an augmented reality doesn't have to be but it can be an augmented reality situation and it's sort of like the one on the right here where you you have this person trying on clothes and a clothing store but she's not actually putting on the clothes the the augmented reality mirror in front of her simulates her putting on that particular set of clothes so what we have there is an environment uh where you see the the overlay is actually in in this image of herself even though she's still in the store in her regular clothes so that's augmented reality then of course we move from there to virtuality when you really are in a virtual world and there's many applications of this in games and adventures huge applications in training and education we're seeing many more examples with this in medical treatments it's a very significant thing happening in the design world designing products in this virtual space what i love about is we can go into a virtual data world right we can start exploring all these different dimensions of data uh you know why limit ourselves to space and time dimension again we talk about the data parameter space as just a hyperspace you know walk into that hyperspace and start looking for patterns and insights in the data i love that and then we have this thing called the metaverse which people are still trying to figure out what that means uh whether it's games or serious business or family adventures or design it's probably all of those things so again it's a it's an edge a divide edge system what i like to tell people is it's not just a data collector it's a data generator you're not just seeing what's in the environment but you're interacting with it so if you touch something you want that thing to respond to your touch so it has to what does it mean by respond to your touch well you're generating data when you touch something a signal goes to model and say hey this person pushed this button or opened this door or moved this thing or whatever So so it's a data generator and a data collector and it has to happen in real time at the moment of data collection So that's an edge intelligence right there Moving right along we'll be done in a few seconds here. Uh, so I'd like to talk about 3d printing In some sense, it doesn't necessarily need to be ai whatsoever The actual word for 3D printing is additive manufacturing, where you make a physical object from a 3D model. You have a data-informed model, and then you just sort of lay down layers of material to actually build a copy of something. So we can 3D print a heart, a toy, a drone, whatever. What excites me is 4D printing. And yes, that's a real thing. There's a YouTube. There's a link to the YouTube at the bottom. 4D printing is actually not just in space, but in time. So it's basically a shape shifter that responds in its shape to sensors. It's data coming from sensors. And this particular YouTube, they talk about medical devices. For example, when a medical device inserted in your heart that needs to change shape and responds to maybe your blood pressure, your heart condition, your stress condition, your health condition, like a heart stent. So the heart stent channels the blood through your vein, through your arteries. That sense sometimes needs to change shape in response to different stress situations in your body. And so it receives signals from a sensor, okay, and it reconfigures. And how can it do that? Well, it's probably using something like carbon nanotubes and piezoelectric crystals. All kinds of things go into the thing that's responding to sense. Electrical impulse is applied to the device in the right kind of way, which is learned from the manufacturing process. We can apply a certain type of electrical signal to change the shape of that thing in real time. So 4D printing is a pretty interesting thing, shape shifters coming into our world. And then we ultimately end up with this Internet of Things, which I mentioned before, where sensors everywhere, streaming data from streaming over fast 5G, eventually 6G, to all kinds of machine learning models and AI applications. A lot of the things we just talked about, you know, health devices, connected devices, autonomous vehicles, digital twins precision farming it's just it's everywhere internet of things is everywhere and so again the the 5g the the fast networks and soon 6g will enable the the transport of all that data rapidly between applications algorithms uh you know and so it's just it's an input and it's an output requirement if you're going to produce an action from a data collection you got to input the data and then you output the the signal that tells uh the device the robot the whatever the the decision maker what to do so that's clearly enabling all these edge systems to work uh autonomously if not necessarily autonomously but in in real time as much as possible thank you mr bond we have a second speaker online so now we get to the conclusions here where we have all this data and i like to say that the internet used to be a thing now things are the internet okay so sensors everywhere in our world sensors everywhere and what are these sensors is giving us not just data about the thing where the sensor is located but it's giving in sense it's giving information and insight about the environment in which that sensor is located so that's what i call the internet of context it's giving us that contextual intelligence about whatever it is where you placed that sensor so iot the internet of things i call the internet of context it's this power source for this contextual intelligence so contextual intelligence enables decision making it gives us context as a service it gives us insights as a service which basically enables us uh to make the best decisions and decisions are nothing more than than a prediction right so when you when you decide to do something it's based upon a prediction that if you do this or the other thing one of those will be the better outcome the optimal outcome and so you make the decision according to that prediction okay so so getting contextual intelligence gives you the ability to essentially do forecasting as a service and ultimately it's really just that intelligent edge as a service that is insights at the point of data collection and don't take my word for it there's all these different studies that show that the revenue growth the market capability that's enabled here the innovation and new business opportunity that's enabled here is in the trillions of dollars you know both in the internet thing specifically but also in the computing environments that enable all this which we call edge computing so in the hundreds of billions if not trillions of dollars and i love this article i i post a link to at the bottom here they said the internet i think companies will dominate this next decade the 2020s is your resume rating i mean if you're going into with the world of data uh think about this the high speed day that's coming the autonomous decision making that's coming you know and whether it's again healthcare sports retail art entertainment design doesn't matter where it is education uh it's happening mr born my apologies just those people's word for it uh even the famous analysis uh company gartner uh when they looked at the impact of different technologies you can't really read this but at the very center of all these different technologies what is that thing right at the very center there i call it out with the arrow there it's edge ai so that's that edge intelligence is at the center and intersection of the most impactful innovations using ai according to gartner this year okay so the trick to make all this possible is to realize that you don't just need one of those technologies we talked about that emerging frontier digital technologies earlier on we looked at that chart at the very beginning of this this huge array of disruptive digital technologies emerging technologies and realize you can start combining ndi nani kimi kimi, start connecting them just like a drone, like it's a flying robot or autonomous vehicle. I mean, it's using computer vision, language understanding, it's using autonomous systems, it's using edge intelligence, it's using AI machine learning in many different ways. And so it a convergence of many different things and it where the innovations start to happen the new thing that someone never saw before So realize that everything connects to everything else Even Leonardo da Vinci who lived hundreds of years ago said this learn how to see realize that everything connects That's where the insight discovery happens. So one simple example then we'll wrap up here. I just found this article recently talked about robotic fish, these teeny little robotic fish. They're trained, okay, they're used, they're trained to identify microplastics in the ocean, and to in some way identify them collect them and bring them together in order to clean the ocean okay so they're addressing a a worldwide problem ocean pollution and it's using at the minimum of these seven technologies robotics internet of things because it's it's an edge a data collector at the at the edge sensing in an environment it's got ai it's got computer vision that edge intelligence is it is an autonomous system and it's using nanotechnology to find these micro plastics in the ocean so here's an innovation that's happening at the intersection of seven of these digital emerging technologies that we've talked about so this is just one example of something that's that you can do to bring together different technologies in different ways to innovate and create new value in the business world and for yourself and for whoever so really it's what is the future of innovation it's really about you and about you seeing the right things taking advantage of those things finding those those intersections where the different technologies can converge and bring value. That's all I have for today. I'd like to thank you very much. I'd like to remind you that the two most important things are in data science are the data and the science, so come for the data and stay for the science. And if you're interested, I'm teaching a course on this subject at Learn Crunch later this season and I was a co-author on this book, The Mystifying AI for Enterprise. So no sales pitch here, just if you're interested in things Thank you so much, Mr. Byrne. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Thank you very much. That was a great presentation. Data is indeed everywhere and there are so many applications to the data analysis. Thank you so much. We also have a second speaker online and we can start our Q&A panel. Christopher, are you here? I'm here. I've been listening to the presentation. I will stop sharing my screen so we can not stir that all day. Thank you. Christopher, could you please introduce yourself a little bit to our audience? Yeah, happy to. Chris Hopper, co-founder and CEO of a company called Aurora Solar. We are the leading software platform in the solar space. So we help solar companies design better solar faster. So we help them get more solar on roofs, we believe. That's one of the big revolutions of this decade and the next one. And one that's very important and very timely with everything that's going on in the world. And so we're big believers in renewable and support that as best we can. We're now 400 people in US and Canada mostly. And our clients and our platform are designing about 100,000 solar systems per week. So these are 100,000 separate roofs that are being touched and assessed for or designed for solar. That's amazing, wow. I'm ready for a few questions if you are. I just want to respond real quickly to Chris there. I think that's lovely that he's working in solar because many times I've heard people say data is the new oil and I say no it's really the new sun. And what do I mean by that? It's a renewable source, all right? So the same data can can be used multiple times. So when we talk about these applications and these things in my presentation, I didn't say this enough, but the same dataset can be used over and over and over and over again. So it's a renewable source of insight and innovation and value to an organization. So in a sense, it's not like oil, which is used once and then you can never use it again. So it's really like the new sun. So I think it's totally appropriate we have solar discussion here as well today. There you go. We're actually big users of machine learning as well. Outstanding. some awesome technology in that space that's amazing so may i ask a few a first question um what has motivated you to step into the field of technology what interested you and why technology in general is that question to me you can both answer if you want to oh okay well i'll just answer quickly i mean my background is astrophysics and i did a lot of theoretical astrophysics so that's a very good question but it turns out in order to validate models that i was building in my astrophysics world i needed observational data and uh by the time i was going through graduate school there were a lot of new digital technology ccd cameras were brand new so there's a lot of new digital technologies that were enabling uh the things they were doing and including fast computation uh you know you know fast processors so it was imperative to learn the technology in order to actually do the science I wanted to do and then once I got out of grad school went on to work at NASA on data systems for space missions uh it's all about the technology right I mean in order to do the science you have to do the engineer understand the engineering I wasn't doing the engineering but I needed to understand what the thing was capable of if I was going to ask this thing in space to do something and so it just became sort of natural uh to understand to understand technology and then this that leads us to today where we're just inundated with all kinds of fascinating technologies and so now it's just about the fascination it's just as a scientist i'm just fascinated with all of it totally i think what about you christopher yeah i think you know there's there's two parts um to that um i studied engineering uh so that's what first got me into into tech if you will and i think that was driven by a sense of curiosity and and uh i guess creativity for me engineering has always been a very creative endeavor i'm not an artist that's not how i express my creativity but engineering gives you the tools you know um the canvas the brush if you will in the figurative sense to to create uh create things in the world so that's always what's what's drawn me uh to it and then specifically what i what i do now what what uh led me down that path um my co-founder sam and i we we actually wanted to start a solar installation business focused on on emerging markets at the time and we put together pilot project uh designed a system soup to nuts you know flew to to kenya installed the system hired local engineers sourced the equipment of course we raised a loan too for it and so we went to the whole process of of designing a and installing a sole installation and through that we did we experienced how cumbersome that process is and how does not good tooling and not good software to support us in that process so we we quickly realized that the industry needed a scalable way of making data-driven decisions so that's how i ended up doing what i do now well that's a great purpose um so it's leading to the second question because technology is created to make our lives easier and more comfortable so what is your take of the future of technology in general maybe something that you expect in the nearby future to be created or something that we just in general will be expecting to see i've actually written on this and my answer is always the same and it's and my answer is in the title of this presentation it's just more convergence we're going to we're going to see more of these different things that that we're producing the technologies that were being generated come together in different uh innovative ways like the robotic fish i talked about at the end there. People are going to start seeing the different combinations and if you're if you know mathematics you may know what the combinatorial theorem is that that is the number of ways you can combine in things grows it's a combinatorial growth is faster than even exponential growth right if you have for example there was 26 technologies there okay and if you could all the different ways you can combine 26 things it's it's approximately 10 to the 26th ndoros kao thoi ndoros kao thoi thoi thoi thoi thoi world to create essentially a trillion trillion innovations each individually if you just imagine all the different ways of combining those Now of course not all of them make sense But the point is we gonna be we gonna we gonna find more and more creative people Not necessarily can invent a new technology like robotics or computer vision But they're gonna find an application like the robotic fish are gonna find New ways to apply that to health care or to art or to design or to engineering or to construction or whatever it is I mean, I tell people, no matter what you're interested in, there's an application. And I think the application is why I like to say the future is you. I said the future is us, the individual. That is, see yourself in this future. Don't see yourself outside of this future. Say, I'm not into this AI thing. I'm not into the mathematics of machine learning. No, it is you. Whether it's an app on your phone or it's an augmented application in the business you're working in, I mean, you're going to be touching it and involved with it and so accepted that this is a way of you having that better, more comfortable life. Chris? No, I mean, I think Kirk is right. I mean, we're sort of in a golden age in that respect. there's so much uh incredible technology at our fingertips that changes every i mean every week i don't know if you you're following the i'm sure kirk is the advances in machine learning in particular over the last even just five years it's incredible that the headway that's been been made on all fronts and now that's that's available via an api from say open ai so you don't even have to be super deep in it to make that technology to combine that to use kirk's framework right and apply to your your space i mean one example is you know we do solar design software you know how does that jive with machine learning but you know it works we actually have a pipeline that automates the process increasingly and is much more you know faster and even more accurate than what a human can do and so that you know creates efficiencies that translates into ultimately cheaper cheaper solar and that's just one you know one industry out of you know God knows how many and so that's a think a terribly exciting one and I wonder that's that's that's obviously near and dear to my heart is is is energy. You know there's a bit of a reckoning going on in particular in in Europe, but not just across the world and we're sort of in this in between phase of, you know, the, the old way of doing things and the new way of doing things and so that's really, really interesting there's a lot of opportunities there for us to to explore and to. to get right and a lot of challenges but you know those opportunities and challenges come come hand in hand and so um i i think we're sort of at the cusp if we do things right of a future that's powered by clean abundant and cheap uh energy and that's i think is a is a very compelling uh compelling future that certainly i'm i'm very excited for well yeah we can do all the technologies and also leading to another question are there any tips and tricks that we can make and how the technology is available to the developing countries maybe an advice to small startups companies and younger population yeah i mean it's actually interesting i i started my career if you will um in the developing world i did some work in off-grid uh solar first so back in 2000 uh was that eight nine ten i i installed small scale uh solar projects in east africa and in rwanda this is before the software company that i now run and uh it was a really meaningful experience because you really see the impact of of technology and energy really uh first hand um but also it's interesting because one thing that happened over and over in the developing world is that it leapfrogs technologies i remember that one one instance where we're um you know in a village sort of two hours by by four by four you know after off the main road and uh we're up in the hills and just you know fields and there's a this woman uh working the field and then the cell phone ring rings and we all check our pockets like oh who is it but it was her she picked up the phone and started you know talking on the phone it was this aha moment for us is like wow you know this community will never have a landline right they just leapfrogged that whole you know the whole century that happened in in the western world and jumped right to the the modern technology that's much more appropriate um for for the use case and then the question for us of course was what does that mean for for energy right how to they'll also leapfrog the whole the whole concept of one big grid with you know large nuclear and fossil you know and coal-based power plants that will make sense in some places but not not everywhere that will never never happen similar things happening in banking and so forth and so it's you know it's actually a super interesting space with a lot of opportunity a lot of challenges too of course but um one that's that's near and dear to my my heart um how do we make it happen i would say there's two things that are really important um one is not leading by the technology is i think of it as appropriate technology for the use case and two you have to be there in the community and really understand it because there's so many dimensions to it that being on the ground is just really really important but then you know it's incredible that the change and the impact it can have i love that i i just to compliment that yeah to compliment that i mean i certainly agree with everything chris is saying that's really wonderful uh my perspective is it gets right back to sort of education which is uh my passion and that is being able to uh teach and train children at an early age about these things and i and i say that in a way that sounds funny to people i said back in the day when i was first learning machine learning i said we really should teach this to kindergartners right and people thought i was crazy because because they were looking at machine learning as calculus and linear algebra and all these complex mathematical things and i said no i don't mean that part of it i just mean the whole idea of pattern recognition and data okay pattern exploration because why because children any even very young children are curious right they're creative they ask questions all right they recognize They recognize their parents face, they recognize their parents voice, they recognize the foods they don't like to eat. Okay, I mean they're really good at pattern recognition. And so we should encourage that curiosity and creativity, the things that Chris was talking about. I mean that's really what is natural to every human being on earth, no matter what's your situation. And so tap into that, make it possible for opportunities to learn at wherever people are. I mean, I've had the pleasure of speaking to boot camps in Nigeria. I've had talking boot camps in small communities in India, even in the United States in these indigenous peoples schools, where traditionally there's not a lot of technology, not a lot of sort of advanced opportunities, you know, within those native communities there. I had the opportunity to bring things, in some sense, for lack of a better way to say it, the sense of wonder. I mean, because children just are inspired by that. And, you know, the next great discovery, the next great cure or something could come right out of one of those places where we don't expect it. Because why did we not expect it? Well, we're conditioned not to expect that this great discovery is going to come from some undeveloped country. develop country well who knows it all it takes is some insight uh and maybe again it's some a pattern detection uh there's all kinds of historical examples of this i'm gonna go through them right now uh but historical examples where someone saw a pattern like the cholera epidemic in london in the 1800s and a person just saw a pattern and realized that oh it's caused by a contaminated water pump you know he just saw no one ever looked at the data on a map to realize Because all the people who were dying were clustered around one place where people were getting their water. I mean so it was just I mean a child could have done that but an adult didn't. But I'm just like tap into those creative curious characteristics, curiosity characteristics that are natural and embedded in every human being and push that let them

I mean not even push it just let the child explore and that's that's my sort of my education messages let the children explore let them ask questions. You know it was uncomfortable for the educator let the let the child ask questions. And I was in a situation once where I was, I was actually put in my place because of for a fourth grade little girl. Probably eight years old put me in my place she she actually explained better than than I did standing waves in the atmosphere of Saturn go figure. I was talking about standing waves in the atmosphere and she gave a better explanation than I did. I said it was just okay. So having purpose, making impact, educating yourself. Are there any messages you would like to give to the audience of the Nobel Fest? Maybe an advice that you would have given yourself in the past when you were just starting over the career? I'll just say one. Just embrace lifelong learning. and primarily because maybe I'm at an age where when I went to school, people could get a degree in a particular field or a training or vocation, and that would carry them for an entire career. That's not true anymore. The technology and the environment we're working in, the work environments and the work requirements and the projects and things people do in work are changing on a faster time scale than 40 years, right? So you need to be in lifelong learning, learn the new things, keep up with it. and it's okay because again that's a natural thing humans do we are good at learning so keep those extra learning muscles exercised throughout your life chris yeah i mean that's a definitely an important one um i mean looking back at my relatively short career so far but it's been been a process of of learning that's what's kept me going um and what keeps it interesting too right you can keep i mean exploring exploring all this which is which is which is wonderful but then i would say there's two two parts that um i've learned that i wish i would have embraced embraced more one is uh i love the concept i've come to love the concept of serendipity and you you can't there's sort of a tendency that we have to plan everything out and to want to know um but there's actually something nice about not not knowing that's that's that's where the excitement comes from and there's you know it's also something nice about just letting your curiosity guide you and and then you discover things and that's been sort of my journey if i reflect back on it you know i can now tell a cohesive story of how it ended up here and how it all made sense but at the time it didn't make sense at the time it was just me following my interest and one thing you know my projects in rwanda led to actually larger scale projects kenya which led to software in the us to you know me being here it's like you know i couldn't have foreseen it but it was sort of my curiosity that guided me throughout. And so that's one. And the second one is to, you know, a bit trite, but it's important to not look at failures and successes like binary things, because they're usually not, you know. I mean, there's always ups and downs, but it's hard to know what failure actually is a failure. It feels like one at a time, but it's not necessarily. And usually there's big learnings and experiences in those two that will be very valuable down the line. So those are two little nuggets I picked up along the way. Well, thank you so much for sharing your experiences and knowledge. Welcome again to the fifth NobelFest event. We hope to see you maybe sometime in the future again. Thank you. Is there anything else we would like to add at the end? No, it's nice to be here. Thank you, Kirk, for your presentation and for being on the panel. Thanks so much to you too. this was a great experience thank you so much have a good rest of your day thank you САБАГ АРАСЫНДА Фантамен өзіліс шаса. Эксперимент шасада өзіліс пою көңгілгөтер. Шаттых формуласа Фанта плюс әлдену. Достарымен ойнаған сеттерын тарихта ғалад. Өзіліс математика сууңай. Әлден бал Фантамен рахаттан. Кане дималатын кезгелда Фантамен әлден бал. Саба ғарасында Фантамен әлден бал. Көңгілгөтер. Кайтала. Сделай перерыв между занятиями Субтитры сделал Dima Танкова Комиксов. Мечтает ли кто-то про его суперкостюм? И с какой вероятностью его станет крылатой фразой? Им не важно. Им важно делать мир немного лучше. Вот для кого нужен Жусан. Жусан. Приложение для тебя. Возможности для тебя. Thank you for watching! Thank you for watching. Субтитры подогнал «Симон» This is the 5th NobelFest that is taking place today here in Astana, Kazakhstan. I am basically leading the session titled The Last Human and the End of Nature I am acting as a moderator for this session My name is Mirgen Dusyanov. I represent the Department of Management and Marketing at the Kazakh Agrotechnical University. So, I'm glad to introduce two speakers for this session. So the first terrific speaker is Mr. Steve Griffith. He is the Senior Vice President and Professor of Practice at the Bin Khalifa University in Qatar. And he is also a member of the Emirates Council for Research and Development. And is also a member of the Zayed Sustainability Prize Selection Committee. The other outstanding speaker with us is Mr. Bill McKibben, who is the 2013 Gandhi Peace Award recipient, environmentalist, and I believe an author of about a dozen of books on topics related to the environment and climate change. All right, so the floor is yours, Mr. Steve Griffith. Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here today. One slight correction. I'm at Halif University in Abu Dhabi. I'm in the UAE, not in Qatar, although I like Qatar quite a bit. So today I'll be going through the topic of the race to net zero and more specifically talking about what is net zero and how it's going to potentially help us accomplish the climate change mitigation that we know is so urgently needed for the planet. I'm going to start off by discussing just a little bit about the context of net zero and to start will be energy transition. So we talk about energy transition. We talk about moving from a global energy system that is based predominantly on one form of energy to another. What we saw earlier, many years ago, was a plant primarily using renewable energy. It was biomass-based, then over time, the demand for energy and supply of energy changed, its composition, slightly, and we saw the evolution of coal taking over as a predominant energy source, and finally the proliferation of different energy sources, many of them hydrocarbon, and in particular, oil. So some would say that we entered the oil age around 1960. The question for us now is what happens in the next 80 years? What will this be the age of if we're trying to become more environmentally sustainable? And to think of that, we have this concept of net zero. So are we transitioning towards a new energy system which will essentially be balanced and equilibrium between greenhouse gases that we emit into the atmosphere and those that were removed by and stored by carbon sinks, which is the definition of net zero. There are different scenarios for how this can play out. They play out over different time spans. We've heard of sustainable development. That's essentially a net zero scenario by 2070. When we talk about the global warming relative to pre-industrial levels, if we can achieve net zero emissions by 2070, the models that have been developed say we might be able to limit warming to no more than 2 degrees Celsius. The net zero scenario, which is the more recent one that's now top of mind to everybody, is net zero 2050, where we will try to achieve zero emissions by 2050, but also and very importantly, what I'll talk about shortly, is we have to, in the very near term, reduce substantially the emissions that we currently face to a level that's compatible with achieving a true net zero impact, which will be mitigating temperature rises to less than over the long term. 1.5°C of global greenhouse emissions which have made a net zero pledge of some sort the color coding here as you can see shows that those in yellow have gone very ambitious they're now putting net zero to law other countries have a policy pledge and others are just putting this out as a political pledge over time I expect as the capacity to deliver net zero increases almost every country I'm sure that I show on the map here will be pledging toward this commitment. Now, importantly, we talk about net zero. It is, I always say, necessary but not necessarily sufficient to ensure that we're meeting our climate change mitigation target. In fact, when I talk about this 1.5 degrees Celsius relative to pre-industrial level target, we're already pretty close. If you know, if you've seen the media in the past year or so, the global warming to date is about 1.1 degrees Celsius. We keep getting closer and closer to a temperature range which could have severe impact, which gets closer and closer to us from the far end. Science continues to be updated. At one point, we thought it would be a much larger temperature increase relative to what's going to be very concerning, if not disastrous, for the climate. Today, that window of temperature rise is shortened substantially. So we have a lot to do given the way climate science has now informed us that we only have a few degrees left before we face serious consequences. Coming back to the idea of how we address the consequences, I said net zero 2050 necessary and not sufficient. There are many ways to get to net zero by 2050. And if you take a couple different trajectories, the IEA scenario is about first going to a 45 to 50 percent reduction from emissions. Here I'm showing the emissions from industry and power and energy in particular, but emissions overall need to come down substantially by 2030, so we don't have until 2050 to wait. If we were to wait that long, linear decline in emissions is not going to get us to net zero. We have a budget of about 400 gigatons of CO2, which we can emit until 2050, and we will exceed the level of our budget by that time if we go with simply a linear trajectory. and if we saw the level decline we saw during the pandemic or as a result of the pandemic, COVID-19, we still won't get there because we're not going to be able to most as rapidly as necessary and in a sustained way reduce emissions. So the net zero idea is extremely important. The 2050 target is extremely important. It gets us closer to where we know the science tells us we need to be with the temperature rise relative to pre-industrial level, but it's not 2050 alone that we have to worry about it's actually a much closer target of our concern which means We need to think about the co2 we need to think about methane when you think about the fluorinated gases And we think about the nitrous oxide all the greenhouse gases in their entirety To get to a true state of net zero although we talked about and I'd shown the previous slide carbon It's a holistic view of what needs to be done to deal with all the greenhouse gases which take us towards global warming targets and tipping points which we don't want to exceed. Now how to do that is it's a very rapid decline that we have to achieve and it's not one that we will be able to get to if we follow traditional or the precedents we've had for energy transitions just signed prior slides. We need strong policy and we have a trilemma to balance what we need to do in affordability making sure that consumers can still meet their needs for new services Without compromising other energy needs or other basic needs. Energy security I come back to this This is top of mind today given the challenges we see in geopolitics What been happening with energy prices is very difficult across Europe and other countries So security is a piece we have to worry about And then there the decarbonization And as you see as the global arena in geopolitics and the state of the day as things play out and unfold over time we have different priorities that shift around which creates even greater challenge for achieving the net zero that I talking about in the presentation avoiding decarbonization which is something that's been top of mind alone let alone the the affordability and security is a challenge that we will talk about first and how we might be able to get there quickly so again back to my slide on transition what we see a lot of today when we talk about being able to decarbonize is a world where we'll have lots of electrification lots of clean power production which i believe is the starting point we have very uh we're called bankable uh renewable electricity from wind and solar and so to go toward a world where we can take the major advantages we've seen from offshore wind non-shore winds or energy reductions now to create uh a means of dealing with the remittance of these of these renewable energy sources having batteries becoming more cheap and expensive that's great because we're seeing a rapid growth in electricity that said though there are lots of areas and lots of sectors where electricity decarbonization of loan will not take us to net zero will not achieve the climate change mitigation we have to be concerned about manufacturing buildings the non electricity part of their emissions transportation the consumption of oil agriculture where you have the nitrous ox and then that the end gases the nitrous gases methane in particular is another gas we have to worry about from agricultural sector there are greenhouse gases you've seen other slides and I'm showing here again as being areas of concern which take us to the thought that power alone decarbonization is not going to be the endgame so we have a challenge there that we need to be concerned about we have to start thinking how will we deal with a world in which we're moving quickly with electricity decarbonization but that won't be the endgame in fact if you look at where we are today and and what technologies or what means we have to rapidly decarbonize. Electricity is in the mass market. We see that the major forms, the dominant form of new power generation is coming from renewables. But many of the technologies across many of the sectors I was talking about, and they're a little bit more detailed here, they won't be hitting mass markets or widely adopted given the economics until the later part of this decade, which is challenging, particularly those different sectors and industries which I show in the highlighted box they are what we called hard to carbonize and so we need to continually find ways to deal with the carbonization that will go beyond electricity hopefully we can electrify some of these sectors we need to find new ways to achieve our net zero ambition dealing of course with all the greenhouse gases I've done quite a bit of work anyone that's interested you can always contact me on the industrial decarbonization but I also show the heavy duty shippings aviation and such is a concern for us so what do we do that's one area that I'll talk about in some detail I have some ideas about where we might take our dialogue around decarbonization to be more than just electricity before I get there I will point out and come back to where we have challenges in this broader trilemma they said we talked about decarbonization that was something when we had the chance to only focus on it was very good to help us get very quickly to technological solutions for net zero. Unfortunately, as I alluded to, the world changes. And so what we've seen is these different dimensions have bounced around a bit. So before the Paris Agreement 2015, affordability of energy was a concern. Then we had COVID-19. Following the post-Paris Agreement, we worried decarbonization was big. Then we worried more about affordability. Then with COP26, We looked a lot more closely at the decarbonization needs, and that's where all the net zero targets I was speaking about became very prominent, very much discussed openly by many countries. Then geopolitics reared their ugly head, and now we're in the present where affordability and security are slightly outweighing, again, the discussion of decarbonization. You see in the media, big oil comeback, the western countries looking toward the developing countries for their hydrocarbon resource. Is that fair? Is that equitable? We want them to decarbonize. We're looking at their near-term opportunity to share low-cost hydrocarbon. So we're now in a geopolitical global landscape, which brings a challenge to net zero, which takes us beyond that decarbonization thing. So we've got challenges in the global landscape. We've got opportunities in decarbonization, which relate to clean power, which isn't going to cover everything. So we have some different issues we have to consider and look at new frameworks, which can hopefully help us address what may be, which I hope won't be the case, but what may be a world in which carbon emissions or greenhouse gas emissions in general are with us longer than we had hoped when we originally started thinking post COP26 that decarbonization could be our full agenda. To do this, I'll focus on the IEA's net zero scenario. As you can see, right now and today, I think what we're doing with the bankable decarbonization measures is what had been expected. Most of our decarbonization will come from an energy efficiency electrification. That's good. going in the future though other models and other ways and other frameworks of dealing with the missions will become more prominent and here we talked about carbon capture utilization storage hydrogen novel fuels and such so the framework I like and what I've been working on with different colleagues in the Middle East is a circular carbon economy I think it's quite useful to consider that we do need to reduce co2 emissions greenhouse gas emissions it's essential so energy efficiency renewables nuclear and light that all needs to be part of the dialogue very prominently but when we deal with issues concerning hard to decarbonize sectors we deal with the shifting priorities in the global geopolitical spectrum and the global dialogue around what's most important for our economies we may need to think about ways to deal with co2 emissions which are not what we want them to be and that is making us think more about removing co2 either from the air itself or from point sources which has been more common utilizing co2 productively when we do that so how can we incorporate carbon dioxide into our plans for net zero so it becomes part of the solution rather than all about the problem and then there's the cross-cutting aspects of the circular carbon economy hydrogen in particular you want to see it's a great fuel to complement co2 for many purposes and electrification it goes that needs to happen and that's been part of what I've been saying earlier in the slides. The IEJ, Institute for Energy Economics in Japan, has done a scenario where they looked at what could be done if we went down the circular carbon economy route and said CO2 and the greenhouse gas emissions are part of the dialogue. Let's make them part of the solution and when you marry the idea of a robust supply hydrogen whether it's from blue hydrogen decarbonized steam methane reform for instance with carbon capture or turquoise where you can do pyrolysis and get a solid carbon or green hydrogen from electrolysis whatever your hydrogen source is you marry that up with the way to the ways we might capture carbon dioxide from different industries and you can go fairly far in least anticipating the scenarios played out and having a decarbonization route which would not be fully based on electrification and clean power. I'm not going to point out everything under the reduce, reuse, recycle, remove paradigm I mentioned. I will point out a few things that are highlighted here now. I think going forward, the hard to carbonize sectors in steel and iron and steel, reducing iron ore with hydrogen is a way that will most likely see the steel industry decarbonize in the future, at least one of the major options So circular carbon economy will likely have a very strong role to play in iron and steel sector Enhanced oil recovery the countries such as we have in the Middle East which will continue to supply the lowest carbon lowest cost oil we want them to do that in a robust way So having a decarbonized approach or having at least the carbon that we capture and utilize from enhanced or recover being part of our solution supply those levels of energy which we know will most likely still come from hydrocarbons and low-cost low-carbon producers. That can be part of the framework. I do a lot of work on cement and concrete. Cement is a big problem, a lot of emissions behind what's essentially the glue in the concrete that we use in our infrastructure. Turns out that concrete, once it's in the built environment, does absorb CO2 over time. It's actually a sink. modern technologies will even be curing of concrete by injecting co2 so co2 can be part of our infrastructure although cement has been a problem in the emissions of co2 it produces it can also be part of our of our solution ndiwajan, e-fuels, aviation in particular is going to over the long term need something beyond batteries to provide the power needed for long haul transport. When you have hydrogen, when you have a source of carbon like CO2, which can be converted to carbon monoxide, which with hydrogen creates a perfect set of components for any common approach today to create an aviation fuels, 19 We need to think about other frameworks given part of the carbonized sector and shifting policy objectives given the global context in the given time. I will also touch now on what I also think is important to net zero, which is a focus on the global south. We need a just energy transition. So when I look at the net zero map, I see a lot of Central America. I see a lot of sub-Saharan Africa hasn't made a net zero pledge yet. and they're not necessarily ready for net zero because these countries especially in sub-saharan africa they're still trying to get access to electricity access to clean cooking they're sometimes overlooked in the energy transition and so i don't think we can really get to a robust net zero and do anything that i've talked about without acknowledging we have to bring the entire global society along with us One step further, if you look at the Energy Transition Index from the World Economic Forum, you won't be surprised probably to look on the left-hand side and see the top 20 countries ready for any transition are mainly in Europe, North America. These are the countries which have got the robust resources in order to transition quickly, Europe in particular in the top 20. When you come to the bottom 20, we see again, sub-Saharan African countries, Middle Eastern countries, countries that are not yet ready to transition. So what needs to be done? And I would say particularly we talk about the global south. And I mean the countries which don't have the financial resource, the technologies, the human capital to make a strong push to net zero. We need to make sure there is a strong dialogue and how we are going to bring technology and knowledge transfer to these countries and really make this a focus of what we do. The work that I publish, done more than a dozen studies very recently on industrial carbonization over and over in the literature, I do not see very much discussion about studies that look deeply at the global south and how they will participate in transitioning key industries to a world that's net zero. So I think that's something that we need to focus on and be cognizant of and pay attention to. So I'll wrap up and I'll conclude with my discussion. If there's time for questions, we can always do that. The concept of net zero for me is a means to an end, and it's by no means an end in itself. We should be pursuing, of course, as you saw, all the greenhouse gases, and more maybe just as important, more importantly, all the sectors, which will have to be part of the net zero solutions so we've great great progress and electricity we've made great progress in decarbonizing electricity that's probably not going to get us to where we need to go because there are sectors which need further focus and there are shifting policy priorities which take us sometimes away unfortunately from the focus exclusively on emissions and decarbonizing and make us think more about energy security and energy affordability. Likewise, all factors considered, I think with net zero being globally important, we need to deal with CO2 as a part of the solution rather than just eliminating it. Zero carbon power is great, circular carbon economy is something that picked up when Saudi Arabia had the presidency of the G20 a couple years ago. I find that quite a useful framework to include all the discussion around energy efficiency clean electricity and alike but also thinking about how we remove co2 and very importantly also use it productively for various end uses so we're going to be very far behind the game and the technologies required to deal with co2 in the ways we want to if we don't start to think that we might need to make it part of our solution set so i'm very much a component of that the just energy transition talked about can't do anything in my view that's going to be beneficial to all of society unless we bring all countries together to make the journey with us to net zero and so the global south technology and knowledge transfer making sure there's human capital developed we've done some recent work on trying to figure out how we could create patent pools so intellectual properties available to countries in the south so that they don't have to license expensive technologies that would be important for their sectors that they're decarbonizing and also getting the right level of training the people ready to adopt technologies because you just can't take a technology from one context another and always expect it to work out well when all these factors are put together and they're done well i think we can really win the race to net zero but it won't be easy and that's the key message for my presentation we will need to come together think of all the different issues which could delay the transition and make sure that we address them all productively effectively and efficiently so with that thank you for your attention um and would be welcome to questions if there are any but otherwise thank you good uh thank you um steve so basically as a with a terrific presentation uh personally um what i've basically um learned for myself is that at the end of the day what really matters is you know is being able to develop a series of practical steps i believe aimed at implementing these renewed so to speak policy directions especially in the global south in developing countries so yeah terrific thank you thank you very much steve for this interesting presentation thank you all right so let me now turn to our next speaker and this is Mr. Bill McKibben the floor is yours well thank you very much and a great pleasure to join you greetings from Vermont in the United United States. This is an important moment to be having these discussions, maybe the most important moment. I'm going to talk for a few minutes about what I think is the crux of these questions around globalization in the future, and I think the most important part of that discussion

quite clear about the role that fossil fuel has played and about the fact that the need to get off coal and glass and oil is the single biggest imperative on the planet. fossil fuel really is what spurred globalization as we know it at the moment and replacing it is the key towards building a future that might still actually work though it's going to be very close I wrote the first book about climate change way back in 1989 I was young man in my twenties and so I had stuck with it ever since and I will get back to climate change in a moment but I want to begin by talking about the other reasons that we need to very quickly get off fossil fuel let's understand why it's been important when we discovered a couple of hundred years ago that we could use first coal and then gas and then oil um it came as an enormous boon in a lot of ways it helped us do things that we had not been able to do before it equipped most people in the western world with the equivalent of many servants to help them do their work and so much of modernity is caught up in our ability to make use of fossil fuel but we've come to understand over the last couple of decades three decades that that boon that that help that fossil fuel davis has turned into a great handicap in three ways in particular i I would say. The first, and one we often overlook, is simply around questions of human health. When you burn something, when you set something on fire, you inevitably put a lot of particulate matter in the air. And when you do, it gets in people's lungs and kills them. A lot of them. The best estimate we have came from a major study, a global study last year, that found that about nine million people a year on this planet are dying of the effects of fossil fuel combustion. They're breathing in those particulates. And those of you who've spent time in cities like Delhi or Beijing can understand how this is true, but it's true everywhere, including in the United States where several hundred thousand people a year are dying from this particulate pollution. 9 million deaths represent one death in five on this planet. It's the second or third looting cause of death on planet Earth. The second reason is that fossil fuel has shown itself to be tightly and profoundly linked to autocracy and to fascism. And that should come as no surprise when you rely on fuel that exists in a relatively few places around the world, the people or powers that sit on top of those few deposits of fossil fuel end up with far more power than they should. Globally, that means corporations, often American corporations like Exxon or Chevron that have far too much influence over the political systems. But it also means individual rulers like, for instance, the King of Saudi Arabia or, as this year has made abundantly clear, Vladimir Putin in Russia. His control over Russia and his ability to do barbaric things like invade Ukraine and set off a human rights tragedy of epic proportion is entirely due to his control over oil and gas. Russia is not a useful economy in other ways. It doesn't produce much that's of value to the rest of the world, but it is a kind of gas station for the planet. And we have watched Russia take its export earnings, 60% of which come from oil and gas, and use them to buy weapons that it now uses to blow up civilian apartment blocks or kindergartens or other facilities across Ukraine. And we've watched Russia attempt to use its control over European supplies of natural gas to intimidate Germany and France and other countries into looking the other way at its martyrdom. That should be a tremendous reminder of how useful it would be to get off fuels that empower dictators. The third reason, and of course the most overriding of all, has to do with the effect of fossil fuel on the planet's climate. As I said, I wrote the first book about this 30-some years ago, and we knew then mostly what we needed to know. When you burn fossil fuel, you put carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and the molecular structure of that CO2 trapped heat that would otherwise radiate back out to space. no she attending each command it flooding you can only have in a globally warmed world where warm water holds more water vapor than warm air holds more water vapor than cold we look at nigeria decimated by flooding this past season and then we look at other parts of africa decimated by record drought um this sort of thing is happening around the planet and in enormous affecting enormous numbers of people yesterday the foremost medical journal on the planet the lancet uh uh pointed out that uh we can now measure in the hundreds of thousands the casualties that come with the spread of infectious disease as warm temperatures allow mosquitoes to spread uh and the um um and the uh reduction in crop yields as warm temperatures drive down potential harvests this is what happens when you raise the temperature one degree celsius which is what has happened so far we're on a path at the moment to raise the temperature almost three degrees celsius if anything like that happens we will not have civilizations like the ones that we are used to have it the damage is simply too great so it is entirely clear for a number of reasons that the task for the planet is to stop burning coal and gas and oil as rapidly as possible and by rapidly i mean in the next few years the world scientists gathered together by the the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have told us that if we can cut emissions in half by 2030 then we have no chance of meeting the temperature targets we set in Paris just a few years ago That's a very tight deadline and a very strong challenge. So let me now transition from telling you bad news to telling you better news. which is that really we have the capacity to at least try and make this transition at enormous speed. And that's because scientists and engineers have done their job remarkably well over recent years. The price of renewable energy, the price of solar power or wind power, or the batteries to store that power when the sun drops or the sun goes down or the wind drops, The price of that power has dropped 90% in the last decade. Across most of the planet, the cheapest way to generate power now is to point a sheet of glass at the sun. That is a revolutionary moment in human history. It allows us to imagine that for the first time in 700,000 years, we might put behind us the human practice of burning things, setting them on fire. Fire has been extremely important to human beings for a very long time. It allowed us to cook food. It allowed us to move north and south away from the equator. Gathering around the fire at night contributed to the social bonds that came to mark our species. And as I said before, with the industrial revolution, our ability to set coal and oil and gas on fire produced modernity. But we no longer need to do it. We now can rely on the fact that the good Lord was kind enough to place a large ball of burning gas 93 million miles away in the sky. We now have the wit to make full use of that energy. We can capture its rays directly in photovoltaic panels, and we can take advantage of the fact that it differentially heats the planet, thus creating the winds that blow that we can capture in wind turbines. The analyses that have been done in the last few years Stanford University and Oxford University, make it clear that there is more than enough renewable energy to generate all the power that we need, and that if we decided to go this path, it would produce a net economic benefit for the planet measured in tens of trillions of dollars. That's because, if you think about it, It's a very different paradigm than the one we're currently engaged in. Yes, you have to do some mining in order to produce a solar panel or a wind turbine or a battery. You need to get some lithium or some cobalt or some rare earth minerals. You only need to get them once. Once you've built your solar panel and put it on the roof, The sun delivers the energy for free every day when it rises above the horizon. If you're burning coal or gas or oil, well, you mine it, drill for it, and then you immediately set it on fire. And then you have to go back the next day and mine or drill some more. That's why it's so incredibly expensive. That's also why it's so incredibly profitable for the people who run these businesses and the countries that engage in this, including my own. And it's why the people who engage in this are so unwilling to give it up. It explains why the oil companies and the oil countries have spent the last 30 years trying to deny the science of global warming and trying to prevent the rapid adoption of renewable energy technologies. If you follow the path of the climate negotiations in the United Nations over the years, you know that time and time again, it's been countries like Russia and Saudi Arabia that have slowed down or blocked progress. The United States has been a big problem in these negotiations because the United States is the biggest producer of hydrocarbons in the planet. And within the United States, it's the power of the big oil companies to influence our political officials that have prevented the U.S. Congress from moving quickly to do the right thing. So figuring out how to break the political power of these companies and these countries is some of the most important work that there is. If we're able to break that power and move quickly to a renewable world, then things could change very quickly. I talked before about the problem with breathing particulates killing 9 million people a year. Well, the vaccine for those deaths is electric bicycles, it's electric cars, it's air source heat pumps to heat your home. It's a swath of technologies that can take advantage of that electricity we can now produce quite cleanly and use it to do the things that we want to do each of us in our own lives. Have cold beer, move our bodies and stuff between places, on and on and on. Also, as should be clear to anyone thinking about the geopolitics of this, a world that relied on sun and wind would be a world that could laugh at dictators. Vladimir Putin can't control the sun and he can't control the wind. He cannot tell Germany that he's going to block its supply of sun, that he's going to turn off its wind, and hence he becomes much, much less powerful, which would be a very good thing for planet Earth. And of course we would begin to have some ability to deal with the climate crisis. Not to stop global warming. It is too late for that. We've already suffered enormous consequences. Half the sea ice in the summer Arctic is now gone. The oceans have begun to rise and that rise is going to continue for a long time no matter what we do. We have wrecked the planet's hydrological cycle or damaged it enormously already, such that in dry places we get more drought and then more forest fire, and in wet places we get more downpour and deluge and dramatic flooding. So, the job at hand is to figure out how to make that transition happen very, very quickly. Not to stretch it out for decades in order to give the fossil fuel industry or the countries that like fossil fuel more time to adjust we don have that time anymore This is a timed test it's not like other political issues, the basic negotiation here is not between different countries or different companies, the basic negotiation is between human beings and physics and physics is. It's a poor negotiator. It simply does what it's going to do, so we have to meet its limits. So the question becomes, how do we meet its limits? How do we push enough to begin to break the political power of the people who want us to stay addicted to fossil fuel? I've spent much of my life helping to build the large mass scale citizen movements that are the only challenge that seems to have done anything so far to begin to erode the position of the fossil fuel industry. For instance, 15 years ago, we started a group called 350.org. It takes its name from what the scientists tell us is the most carbon dioxide we could safely have in the atmosphere, 350 parts per million. The number were already way past, about 420 parts per million, which is why the Arctic melts and why Siberia catches on fire and on and on and on. 350.org has organized demonstrations in every country on earth. We think about 20,000. Actually, not every country on earth. North Korea is the one place where we've never been able to do any work at all. Those protests and things have in certain ways paid off. We've been able to block huge fossil fuel construction projects like the Keystone XL pipeline in North America. And the fossil fuel divestment campaign that we launched has led to endowments and portfolios and pension funds with $40 trillion in assets selling their stock in coal and oil and gas companies. These include pension funds from places like the Netherlands or Norway or Quebec or New York State. They include the most important universities in the world, Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, Princeton, the University of California. It's been a huge global uprising by many, many people, one that gets larger and larger over time. It's been led in many ways by young people. Probably most of you know the name of Greta Thunberg, the great hero of this planet, who as a young girl of 15 went on strike at her school in Sweden. She said, if leaders can't be bothered to prepare a country in which we will have a future, why should we prepare ourselves for that future? So she wouldn't go to school. There are 10,000 young leaders like Greta Thunberg around the world, and they have 10 million followers. That's how many children were out on school strike in September of 2019 before the pandemic hit. Those young people are doing extraordinary work, and they deserve our great thanks. I've been spending my time these last couple of years organizing older people like me, people over the age of 60, to engage in this same work because we think we can back up and support those young people in profound ways. At the moment, we've organized a large campaign to try and pressure the big banks that continue to lend to the fossil fuel industry. In America, banks like Citibank, Chase Bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo Bank. These are banks that lend huge sums of money to the fossil fuel industry to allow it to keep expanding. and there are also banks that have lent huge sums of money to the Russian oil and gas industry, even though it's been clear for a long time that those companies were under the thumb of tyrant Vladimir Putin. So it's good work to try and see if we can press these banks to stop their lending. Not all their lending to the fossil fuel industry. We're going to have, sadly, a few more rules of oil on this planet. And so companies and countries need banking relationships to keep that going. But what we cannot allow is any more expansion of the fossil fuel industry. No new pipelines, no new refineries, no new shipping facilities for LNG, no expansion in any way of an industry that scientists tell us we must be shutting down as fast as we possibly can. If there's one message I can get across today, it's that we now have to move with extraordinary speed in order to make change happen. Winning slowly on climate change is just a different way of losing. It doesn't do any good to lose slowly. So, we have a remarkable moment right now. Vladimir Putin has given the world another reminder of what dangerous stuff fossil fuel is. And his brutality is reminding Western Europe that they can and should move with far more haste than they have already. We are seeing remarkable work being done in the EU to quickly, quickly move away from reliance on gas and oil at all. They are going to be putting up wind turbines at a rate that we have never seen before. As are countries like China for other reasons. The Chinese are putting up more renewable power than anyone in the world right now, in large part because their cities had become unbearable places. And that extraordinary load of pollution was a threat to the dictatorial rule of the Communist Party in China. and and so they moved and are moving to do something about it all around the world we're beginning to see these moves take place but we need them now to happen with enormous speed and we also need to be seen that fossil fuel countries and people and companies that have from fossil fuel years past begin to use some of those profits to compensate the people now feeling the effects If you look at a country like Pakistan whereas I said before 33 million people were displaced earlier this year by massive flooding, people in Pakistan have done almost nothing to contribute to the cloud of carbon in the atmosphere. They've produced in per capita terms very little carbon, less than one percent of the global total whereas oil producing countries have gotten wealthy filling the atmosphere with carbon some of that wealth belongs to the victims of that carbon and that'll be one of the topics when we get to egypt for the next big climate talks in few weeks. So we have our work cut out for us but we have a path forward and that path forward is to end combustion and burning on planet Earth and to do it very fast. Scientists and engineers have given us this possibility. The fossil fuel industry and the dictators that depend on it will stand in the way and It's up to individual citizens coming together in groups of activists to figure out if we can push that work to go faster and faster. Let us hope so because the future depends entirely on our success in doing so. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you very much, Bill. both of you have given us these terrific presentations very thoughtful with great ideas to think about definitely let me sort of kind of summarize the major points you mentioned that the United States remains like one of the biggest producers of fossil fuels to this day arrive. On the other have we also have you know the whole group of you know global south countries, right? Developing countries including Pakistan youDI mentioned is one of the examples that thato appears to be facing this tremendous challenge Plus on top of that one of your recommendations I believe has been that oil and gas companies shoud allocate parts of the profits to be directed towards renewable sort of projects. But the thing is that kind of remains in the air is how do we incorporate all these into the incentives, right? So how do we incentivize all these global players to think about the need to make this transformation, quality transformation worldwide towards more sustainable, renewable fossil, sorry, renewable fuel. Right, so thank you very much for this outstanding presentations. I guess I will exploit my privileged position by asking the following question. So I guess my question would be to both of us or any of you. So, it appears, you know, based on what you have presented today and based on the topic of our session, there are, there appear to be a number of distinct research camps related to climate change and sustainability. So one scholarly camp, let's call it this way, can be perhaps termed to be like pessimists, as again as the title of our session suggests, right? There are also other researchers or scholars who might be referred to as cautious optimists and are definitely, you know, truly, let's say, let's call them like optimists. One of the alternative approach to analyzing climate change is to incorporate the climate into economy in order to incentivize the key economic players. So my question I guess is a philosophical kind of. So is it really predetermined in your view that we are moving towards the end of nature and basically the extinction of the human beings as we know them? It's not predetermined in any way. Human beings have the ability to change this. but they have to move fast. On our current path, we're going to do extraordinary damage. And if we listen to people who say, take your time, delay, go slowly, don't upset the apple cart, don't cause trouble for anyone, if we listen to those voices, then we will end up in a place where humans won't go extinct, but the kind of civilizations that we have built will become impossible to maintain. So our job is to move fast. Speed is the most important thing at this point. Well, terrific. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm curious whether we have the online audience connected. If there is an online audience, then I guess I will just turn the floor to the audience. Are there any questions? I believe there is no audience related to this session, so my apologies. Altyazı M.K. Thank you for watching!
