Source: YouTube — Alisher Sadullaev on Amerika Ovozi — "Uzbek senator on reforms and challenges"
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UnpIm2pfeWQ
Channel: Amerika Ovozi
Kind: interview
Language: uz
STT: Aisha AI

So the parlament is given a normal response now. What happens that um we had a meeting with the president and he asked the party to be more effective to play a very important role in the society's Saytda parlamentga e'tibor berish, qo'llab-quvvatlash, spirtli vakillar huquqiga ega bo'lish va ayni vaqtda davlatga yordam berish uchun yordam berish. Bizda, e, reforma juda ishtirok etgan sistema, bizda hech bo'lmasa, inflyatsion tenfo, judjes, endi bizda besh yil, o'n yil ishga intilgan. Shunday bo'lganda ular ko'proq, ko'proq independensiya olib keladi. Bizda, e, sort of, "awaken" degan media, endi agar siz bizning bergan ma'yusizni o'qib, agar siz boshqa... Facebook, Twitter or whatever. We see how people are openly discussing things that they never been discussing before and they are criticizing in many cases government. So those forces are happening and that empires, say, all the instruments of making sure that the process of reform will go on and will continue. So it is not only words, it is all of the needs and we perfectly understand that there are challenges that have the first, but we also understand that this challenges must not even be underestimate but not allow to overwhelm the end of. Uh, what was one of the major obstacles for development of Uzbekistan to become more business friendly was the issue of, of course, liberalization of the trade union, liberalization of investment region, and of course, uh, the way how we work with foreign companies. Uh, uh, and so-called notorious convertible issue then the foreign companies could not transfer their earnings in hard currency back to their countries. So that issue was totally resolved. So any company can freely go to Uzbekistan, sell their goods, products, services, get their money immediately in hard currency transfered without any handic, problems, and issues. And that means that our doors are open not only for investors with a little bit more privilege. ushtbu trade. Lekin, agar qaysidir bizneslarga va bizlarni ko'rishga xursand bo'lardik ITVsini, qaysidir bizneslarimizga, ularga, ular O'zbekistonda nima qilib sotishini bilishlari va agar ular bilmasa, biz ularga yordam berishimiz mumkin. Endi bugungi kunda biz o'rgatmadik, biz o'rgatmadik nafaqat o'ttiz million so'm, lekin biz o'rgatmadik region'ni. Va bu fantastik region. Regionda yigitlari juda ham kuchli bo'lib kelishi mumkin. For the first time we introduced the ombudsman on business office. And this is also important because we understand that middle and small and middle-class businesses is a backbon of economy. We see process of reengagement with the international financial institutions which sazay activities in Uzbekistan, particular European Bank for Reconstruction Development, their opening full flesh office in Uzbekistan. Or they are starting operations when somewhere in November. we are signing around ikki yuz million dollars of credit clients for small business as businesses and a number of projects beginning private sector and municipal projects as well. Uh, two days ago he in Washington we signed and agreement we were European investment bank. They also starting to operations in Uzbekistan and this is the largest investment bank in the world and they quality here to have their presence in Uzbekistan. Hisoyotda mi hav very good relations with Asian Development Bank, they one of the o'zining banklarida esa infrastruktura investment bank. Shunday qilib, bizda bizneslarga ishga kirish imkoniyati bo'lgan ko'p. So there is a well-known financial institutions. Ularning, ularning businessini qilishga xashtiradiganlar Uzbekistonda, biz ularni ularni individual yordam beramiz. Bizda trade mission qilinayotgan ish US$ bir kun bo'lib organize qilinadi by American Investment Boss Commerce. O'sha kunlarda ham large investment forumi bo'ladi Tashkentda ikki ming o'n sakkiz- yildan beri. Mr Fudratov, u his member of our delegation. U be happy to share. his information on this. Um, if if we talk about the foreign policy of Uzbekistan, which dramatically changed from, let's say, a sedimentary style to very proactive style. Um, this year alone we witnessed o'n olti presidential level visits, more than o'n besh meetings on a high level, and uh we signed around ikki yuz o'ttiz different commercial agreement stolden forty- three million US dollars worth of investment in Uzbekistan. So windows of those forty- three million two point six million of US investment which were a result of the very successful business forum which took place last month in New York and we look forward for a much larger and much active engagement of the United States of America. Our the cornerstone of our foreign policy is our regional language. And those who have been observing the region of Central Asia has witnessed many, many, um, context on the presidential level, because the key slogan for our regional cooperation is Central Asia is our main priority. I mean, one of the breakthroughs is is our border agreement which we signed with Kurdistan. We have lost twenty-five years unresolved border issue. for the moment we are very proud that we in one year we have formalized eighty-five percent of our borderline and it was ratified by parliaments of both countries and that all legal procedures have been fulfilled by the President of the States and remaining o'n besh percent we hope to finalize in the by the end of the ikki ming o'n sakkiz. So we visually resolved major issues and major obstacles and handic that does not help Uzbekistan to engage regionally. Biz endi ko'p regionallik trade exchangelar, culturel sharoitlashlar idoralar idoralar qabul qildik. Keyingi yil Qozog'istonimizni O'zbekiston tumanida taklif qilamiz. Bizda hamma shu narsa Tujikiston, Qirg'iziston, O'zbekiston haqida. Xo'sh, xullas, hamma narsa shu yerda sodir bo'lyapti va bizning shaxsiy davlatlarimiz ham o'sha o'ta darajada hamkori bo'lib qoldi, kamida o'ttiz% degani, eng qimmat to'qqiz% degani. yeah. But there is also building of mutual trust and understanding between the all the works of society as well as and presidential levels as well. When we talk about Central Asia, the issue of security, so of course on the agenda, uh, next November an executive professor is going to attempt the regional conference on security, and all, uh, leaders of Central Asia and all representatists will be. discussing what we can do to make Central Asia more safe, more secure. But when we talk about security, it is more Afghanistan, which of course concerns us. And we boosted our engagement with Afghanistan. We expect by end of this year visit of President Gani, we had a number of again meetings, presidential level meetings during on the platform of international events. And we would be quite eager to help Afghanistan of course more. economical to be part of many economic projects which which take part in this country. We introduced the institute of the special uh ambassador on Afghanistan and he is working there actively and participate in all events related to Afghanistan. So hopefully uh Afghanistan will remain on our radar and we will be able to help this country to move forward. United States, United States is very important for Uzbekistan. Um, we are proud to have very good relations with all our neighbors, but unless you ask in Uzbekistan, one cannot feel the sense of home. The more international stakeholders increase their activities, Uzbekistan is better for us. We understand perfectly well what they are doing inside the country, and we need to maintain our relationship with each and everybody. Uh, this is one of the bigness of democracy. We want to be the business style democracy, and of course we need to have good relations. speak to Europe. We understand that we need to compete with China, we need to compete with Russia. We position ourself as a industrial hub for Central Asia. That means we need high technologies. And high technologies comes from Europe, from US, and that means we need close engagement. We definitely need larger pool of investors. We definitely need to increase our turner. We definitely need to boost our financial set of service and others. can't do this unless we have a very strong partner, and those partners are coming from the US. We are very glad that we have very positive dialogue with the US government. We seen a very positive letter from the President Trump sent to the President of Uzbekistan during his visit to New York. We hope that that trend and tendency will continue, but at the same time, we are open and I had very discussions with him on the issue. He wants to engage with Uzbekistan and we are to be part of this process. We need, as I told you, much strong cooperation and I hope that relationship will expand to parliamentary links as well, because I do represent the Senate of Uzbekistan and for a young democracy as Uzbekistan to strengthen the parlamentarism, we have to work with the American partners. I am glad that in the level we will have a small team of six parlamentarians, including myself, who are part of the Open World program, and that will help our very young, very dynamic parlamentarians to immerse into the day how the parlament residence is conducted in the US. I hope we will have much more such exchange programs not only on government, on trade, on education, people to people's democracy, processes, or we would be very glad to see Friendship Society in the US O'zbekistonda O'zbekistonda bo'lganingiz uchun love this country and many people would love to do something. So, biz juda open bo'lamiz va we would love to see you in Uzbekistan. We would welcome you and again, thank you very much for your time, for your attention and uh, hope to see you soon either here or there. Thank you. Thank you very much. Chairman and senator Komolov. Og'ilchoq.
